[[Snowdon_et+al_ProtocolSamplingTreeStandBiomass_2002]]

# [Protocol for Sampling Tree and Stand Biomass - NCAS Technical Report No. 31](https://dx.doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.1.2825.8967)

## [[Snowdon]]; [[P.]]; [[Raison]] et al.

### 2002

## Abstract
Estimation of the biomass and carbon content of Australian forest and woodland ecosystems and ==its rate of change is an important goal of the National Carbon Accounting System==. This protocol describes field methods for estimating above-ground and root biomass of woody vegetation. ==It complements the protocols developed for estimating carbon in soils and litter== ([^Mckenzie_et+al_2001_a]), and the synthesis of national information on wood density (Ilic et al. 2000).
==Ecosystem carbon is usually partitioned into four major pools==:

## Key concepts
#diameter_at_breast_height; #method/importance_sampling; #victoria; #california; #university_of_western_australia; #eucalyptus_marginata; #synthesis; #global_positioning_system; #queensland_department_of_primary_industries

## Quote
> Estimation of the biomass and carbon content of Australian forest and woodland ecosystems and its rate of change is an important goal of the National Carbon Accounting System

## Key points
- This section outlines methods for estimation of above-ground biomass and carbon using either complete or partial harvest of sample trees
- Estimation of the biomass and carbon content of Australian forest and woodland ecosystems and its rate of change is an important goal of the National Carbon Accounting System
- This protocol describes field methods for estimating above-ground and root biomass of woody vegetation. It complements the protocols developed for estimating carbon in soils and litter ([^Mckenzie_et+al_2001_a]), and the synthesis of national information on wood density (Ilic et al 2000)
- Ecosystem carbon is usually partitioned into four major pools:
- It is important that boundaries between the different pools are clearly defined so that when estimating carbon stocks in an ecosystem all sources of carbon are counted and they are counted only once
- Clear definitions are important when the various components are estimated in separate studies, and when this protocol for sampling aboveground and root biomass is used in conjunction with the protocol developed for estimating soil carbon ([^Mckenzie_et+al_2001_a])

## Synopsis

### SUMMARY
Estimation of the biomass and carbon content of Australian forest and woodland ecosystems and its rate of change is an important goal of the National Carbon Accounting System.
This protocol describes field methods for estimating above-ground and root biomass of woody vegetation.
Partial harvest methods are outlined in which estimation of biomass is based on either subsampling methods or on the development and application of regression estimators that relate biomass to simple measures such as diameter, or other estimators to simple measures of component size
Generalized modifications of these methods are described for estimation of biomass of understorey shrubs and individual trees with irregular form.
Methods are outlined for measuring carbon concentration in the various components of biomass

### Methods for calculating selection probabilities
Example of calculations for randomized branch sampling and importance sampling of a crown.
Estimation of crown area by point sampling.
Bipod system for obtaining fresh weights of tree components.
Density measured by coring requires increments to be weighted to reflect the cross-sectional areas of the increments.
Determination of stem sampling height based on cumulative volume.
Examples of root stumps showing root crown and other root components.
Example of root biomass sampling on individual trees and multi-tree plots based on spatial limit.
Example of a Voronoi diagram, illustrating boundaries between individual trees.
Example of a weighted area Voronoi polygon.
Diagram of the trench excavated around each pair of trees in the Darwin study.
Lignotuber of Eucalyptus leucophloia growing on a rocky site in the Pilbara, Western Australia.

### PREAMBLE
One of the objectives of the National Carbon Accounting System (NCAS) is to estimate the carbon stock and change in stock of Australian forests and woody ecosystems.
This requires estimates of above-and below-ground carbon content in these communities.
The protocol developed here primarily addresses methods for sampling and measurement of aboveand below-ground components in woody vegetation.
Inventory of forest carbon depends directly or indirectly on the estimation of biomass in sample plots.
Biomass of large vegetative structures is usually estimated by applying ratio or regression methods to an measured variable, such as stem diameter, which has a strong relationship with biomass of the component of interest.
Details for the development and application of ratio and regression methods are provided in this protocol

### CARBON POOLS WITHIN ECOSYSTEMS
Methods for estimating some components have been given in the protocol developed for sampling soil carbon ([^Mckenzie_et+al_2001_a]).
Boundary conditions which require careful definition are those separating live and dead woody roots between the soil and root compartments; and those defining the partition of above ground woody debris, including stumps and snags, between the soil and above-ground compartments.
Methods for estimating the first two components of above-ground woody debris are included in the protocol for estimating soil carbon ([^Mckenzie_et+al_2001_a]).
Both the above-ground and below-ground components of stumps, upright snags and partially suspended snags are amenable for estimation by regression on diameter and/or height measurements and these two components should be separated.
Estimation of fully suspended detached debris will be difficult but will usually be inconsequential

### ROOTS The root compartment of ecosystem carbon is comprised of
Other specialized, below-ground structures such as lignotubers or pneumatophores not accounted elsewhere.
It is feasible to estimate the below-ground biomass and carbon content of live roots from root-to-shoot ratios or from regression relationships with aboveground bole diameters.
Live woody roots tend to increase in mass as they grow with time while dead woody roots tend to decrease in mass as they decompose
They need to be treated in different ecosystem compartments.
It is probably best to assign dead woody roots, root-boles and specialized underground organs to their own compartment unless they have been physically removed from beneath the soil surface, eg.
1.2.4 SOIL ORGANIC CARBON The protocol for measurement of soil organic carbon ([^Mckenzie_et+al_2001_a]) includes carbon in all dead organic matter at the soil surface for sites where it occurs.
It is desirable to attempt to characterise the soil to a depth where a rootimpeding layer is encountered ([^Mckenzie_et+al_2001_a])

### METHODS FOR ESTIMATING FOREST BIOMASS AND CARBON
1.3.1 OVERSTOREY SPECIES Biomass, and subsequently carbon storage, of individual trees or stands are estimated by applying pre-determined statistical relationships to simple tree measurements such as stem diameter and tree height.
Applying a regression equation specific to the individual tree species to diameter and, sometimes, other tree measurements;.
Estimation from species-specific or generic biomass yield tables based on diameter and, sometimes, height measurements; and.
Ad hoc correction for the presence of hollows or major deformities in individual trees may be warranted
The rational for these should be presented together with the uncorrected estimates.
Estimates can be gained by applying regression relationships to simple measurements such as crown diameter or height.
Few such relationships have been published for Australian species.
Methods for estimating understorey biomass by direct harvest are given in Appendix 1
These can be extended to allow the construction of regression relationships applicable to particular species or ecosystems.
Biomass of stags can be estimated by applying equations developed for live trees and applying a correction for the degree of deterioration

### CONVERSION FROM BIOMASS TO CARBON
With the exception of soils it usual to estimate the quantity of most compartments as ovendry biomass and apply an appropriate factor to convert these estimates to estimates of carbon content.
Sometimes a simple generic multiplier is used but it is more appropriate to conduct laboratory analyses for carbon concentration in each of the major components sampled during the inventory.
It is sometimes possible to apply a regression equation to stem diameter or some other measure of tree size in order to estimate root biomass.
1.3.5 SOILS Details for estimating soil carbon are given by [^Mckenzie_et+al_2001_a]).
Care must be taken to carefully define the boundaries of the soil carbon pool with that of the root and woody debris pools

### INTRODUCTION
This section outlines methods for estimation of above-ground biomass and carbon using either complete or partial harvest of sample trees.
This will require destructive sampling though, in some cases, sub-sampling that does not destroy the tree will be possible.
Destructive sampling will give the most accurate estimate of tree biomass but, is not practical for broadscale inventory application.
Estimates obtained from destructive sampling are used to develop equations that predict biomass from measured variables such as stem diameter, tree height or crown dimensions.
It is important that the trees chosen for sampling are representative of the populations to which the predictive equations will be applied (See Appendix 3)

### INITIAL MEASUREMENTS
All candidate predictor variables for estimating biomass of individual trees or components of trees should be measured initially.
Diameter at crown break is another often useful predictor variable, for estimating crown biomass, and should be measured.
Errors in measuring height can be considerable using ground–based methods
This is due to difficulty in observing the top of the tree due to obstruction from other vegetation or the shape of the crown.
Use a crownometer to record presence or absence of crown at grid intersections
This may be the only option for accurate estimation of crown area of irregularly shaped crowns typical of large eucalypts.
Height to crown base in itself may be a useful predictor variable for crown biomass, in timber production forests subject to pruning.

### COMPLETE HARVEST METHOD
The complete harvest method is so-called because all above-ground material in destructive sample trees is collected and weighed.
It is the most accurate method for determining above-ground biomass and is generally the preferred method.
If detailed partitioning of components of aboveground biomass is required partial-harvest methods may be relevant
In particular this applies to leaf biomass because of the large amount of work involved in removing leaves from the complete crown of all but small trees or shrubs.
Separation of large- and small-branch material is likely to be based on practical sub-sampling considerations.
Some trees will have a substantial amount of dead detached material (DDM) held above-ground in the crown or stem forks
This may include fallen branches and leaves as well as shed bark.

### DRY WEIGHT CONTENT Basic steps in dry weight determination are
If the species is a commercial timber species for which stem volume data are available it is likely that it will be in the form of merchantable volume under-bark or total volume under-bark
In these cases corresponding estimates of stem volume under bark should be made on the stems of sample trees to facilitate calculation of BEFs. Method C1: To be applied if initial sampling indicates no systematic variation in moisture content between branches within the crown, eg.
If branches are small and numerous, take sufficient branches so that the sample weight is approximately five percent by weight of the total crown section
These can be bulked for weighing and drying or sample branches handled separately and an average DW:FW ratio calculated.
If DDM is present in the destructive sample tree take a sample representative of the material present

### WEIGHING AND HANDLING SAMPLES
It is essential that weighing of a component for fresh weight and sampling from that component to estimate the DW: FW ratio be done at the same time.
Place samples in cool (2 – 4°C for temperate species, 12 –14°C for tropical species) storage immediately on return from the field unless they are to be ovendried immediately
This can extend storage life to 2 weeks if required with minimal dry weight loss ([^Forrest_1968_a]).
An estimate of carbon concentration of each component sampled should be obtained for each ‘vegetation type’ x region combination.
Take and analyse sufficient samples to estimate mean carbon concentration of a component to ± 2 percentage points, eg.
Samples obtained for dry weight determination are suitable for carbon concentration analysis.
Several samples should be used to estimate DW: FW ratios so that their standard deviation can be used to assess this error component

### PARTIAL HARVEST METHODS
Accessibility and ability to fell the tree may limit the use of the complete harvest method
Under these conditions alternate approaches are required to determine above-ground biomass of woody vegetation.
Partial sampling methods involve indirect measurement and/or subsampling of the tree to estimate the biomass of the tree.
These methods do not give as accurate measure of tree biomass as the complete harvesting methods outlined above.
For this reason it is strongly recommended that the methods outlined below be used only when complete harvest methods can not be used
This is so if the tree biomass data are being used to develop allometric relationships.
Estimation of foliage and smaller branch biomass from regression sampling or by sub-sampling methods

### ESTIMATING THE BIOMASS OF STEM AND LARGE BRANCHES USING VOLUME AND DENSITY
Stem and branch volume can be calculated from measurements of diameter and length. For commercial tree species volume functions may be used to calculate the volume of the main stem (eg. [^Bi_1998_a]).
Selection probability is typically based on branch diameter which can be weighted depending on sampling objectives i.e. if foliage or branch biomass is being estimated (Table 2.4).
If DOB2 x length is to be used in probability calculations (Table 2.4) or if biomass is to be estimated by importance sampling the length of section along the branch from the current node to the node is measured.
Foliage on the sub-sample is removed and if appropriate the woody material is partitioned into differing size twigs and branchlets
Fresh weights of these pools are measured and a sub-sample taken to determine moisture content.
These are used to calculate dry weight of branchlet, twig and foliage pools; 10.

### INTRODUCTION
A wide variety of methods have been used to estimate root biomass but generally excavation and coring methods in conjunction with allometric relationships are used.
This protocol does not describe all possible methods, but gives recommendations and examples for the selection of suitable approaches for estimating total root biomass in support of the National Carbon Accounting System.
Root biomass will normally have a high spatial variability, which is primarily associated with changes in stand development and soil properties.
An understanding of this variability will help in designing a root sampling methodology.
The definition of root biomass adopted here does not differentiate between live and dead roots owing to the inherent difficulties associated with distinguishing between them and the laborious nature of root-sorting

### METHODS
3.2.1 TWO-STAGE SAMPLING OF ROOTS Usually roots of woody vegetation are sampled only to some root diameter or spatial limit.
One advantage of this approach to root sampling is that it is amenable to bulk excavation of all surface soil in the multi-tree plot
This may give a more accurate estimate of surface root biomass than by sub-sampling.
Note that for adequate sampling of a whole population, more than the two destructive sample trees and the one multi-species plot indicated in this simplified example are necessary
They may be a logical means of defining the root sampling area of trees that have been harvested for measurements of aboveground biomass.
Sampling to estimate root biomass per individual, either by repeated coring or by excavation of standard volumes, is difficult on rocky sites
Another alternative is excavation of additional volumes of soil using a backhoe with a set number of sub-samples that are sieved to provide a general estimate

### SAMPLE PROCESSING
Following hand-picking to remove larger roots, the remaining roots should be separated from soil by sieving.
The simplest and, in many cases, most economic method of separating roots from soil is a washing process with a jet spray of water aided by hand manipulation.
The organic debris may adhere to the roots, often attached by fungal hyphae or root mucilage/exudates
In these cases roots must be separated by hand picking.
3.2.5 ROOT DRY WEIGHT To determine dry weight, the washed and cleaned roots, or a representative sub-sample thereof, are dried in an oven at 70°C until no further weight change occurs.
The weight of ash residues is deducted from the subsample dry weight to give the correct weight of the roots
This correction factor should be determined for each set of site conditions, and for individual operators involved in root washing and sieving.

### SUMMARY
(a) Roots of individual sample trees are sampled to a consistent root diameter or soil spatial limit.
(b) Roots not sampled on individual sample trees should be sampled in multi-tree plots.
This should include roots of understorey and overstorey vegetation.
(c) Aboveground biomass is estimated on the multi-tree plots from biomass prediction equations.
An alternative to two-stage sampling is the Voronoi polygon approach to develop individual tree prediction equations for root biomass:.
(b) Biomass prediction equations developed from Voronoi polygon sampling will predict root biomass in a tree's polygon area, not root biomass of the tree; 5.
Excavation is used to sample the roots of individual trees, either sampling all roots in a defined soil volume or to sample roots to a defined diameter limit; 6.
Where rainfall is very seasonally variable, measurements may be needed to estimate annual minima and maxima for fine root biomass

### METHODS
An outline of the scope and objectives of each particular study should be reported.
A detailed description of the methods used to estimate biomass of the various components studied should be given.
Reference should be made to methods outlined in this Protocol and the specific way they have been applied in the study.
Details should be given of any modifications or alternative method that has been used.
Methods used to select sample plots and trees should be given.
Definitions should be given of the boundaries used to define different biomass components, eg.
Diameter limits for branch and root components
Definitions should be given of the boundaries used to define different biomass components, eg. diameter limits for branch and root components

### PLOT INFORMATION
4.2.1 PLOT ESTABLISHMENT AND LOCATION The preferred option for locating plots in the field is by use of a Global Positioning System (GPS).
This enables efficient and accurate placement and relocation of permanent sample plots.
Measurement tapes need to be held horizontal when establishing plots on sloping ground.
If this is precluded on a steep slope, correction tables can be used to derive plot dimensions suitable for measurement on the slope.
If a detailed sampling for soil carbon ([^Mckenzie_et+al_2001_a]) is not being made a technical classification of soil conditions is required

### BIOMASS COMPONENTS
4.3.1 SAMPLE TREE DESCRIPTION A description of each sample tree should be given including:.
Stem and other measurements potentially useful for the development of allometric or linear equations for predicting biomass should be given.
Measures other than those necessary for the current study should be considered if they would enhance the capacity of the data to be amalgamated with that derived from other studies.
4.3.3 ABOVEGROUND UNDERSTORY COMPONENTS When understorey species have been sampled individually for the development of regression estimators details should be given of measurements for various independent variables and biomass components analogous to those required for overstorey trees.
Details of any regression equations developed from these data should be given if they have been used to derive plot-based estimates for the study.
Plot-based estimates of understorey biomass, whether derived from regression estimates or some other method, should be accompanied by an estimate of errors associated with the estimate

### ROOT COMPONENTS Information on root biomass will usually consist of
Estimates of biomass of roots known to be attached to a particular tree or shrub; and/or.
Estimates of biomass of roots of unknown attachment.
In both cases the roots might be assigned to different compartments on the basis of diameter or some other criterion, eg.
In the second case an estimate of error should be provided.
This can be calculated from data for individual subsamples such as soil cores.
4.3.5 REGRESSION RELATIONSHIPS Details of any regression relationships developed during the study should be reported.
These could include regressions developed to aid estimation of individual components within trees eg.
Error mean square for the regression and either the total or regression mean squares

### STAND ESTIMATES
The results for stand based estimates of biomass should be reported according to the general principles developed above for individual trees.
Error of forest inventory estimates: its main components.
Proceedings of the workshop on tree biomass regression functions and their contribution to the error of forest inventory estimates.
Field guide for sample plots in New Zealand forests.
Temporal and spatial variations in biomass and 13C of fine roots in a jarrah (Eucalyptus marginata (Donn ex Sm)) forest in south-western Australia.
Estimating the aboveground weight of forest plots using the basal area ratio method.
Composition, leaf area index and standing biomass of eucalypt open forests near Darwin in the Northern Territory, Australia.
Sampling strategies and methods of estimating the biomass of crown components in individual trees of Pinus radiata D.
Code of Forest Mensuration Practice: A Guide to Good Tree Measurement Practice in Australia and New Zealand.
Code of Forest Mensuration Practice: A Guide to Good Tree Measurement Practice in Australia and New Zealand. (Research Working Group #2 (Forest Measurement and Information), Standing Committee on Forestry). http://www.anu.edu.au/ Forestry/staff/index_frame.html

### INTRODUCTION
In arid and semi-arid Australia, predictions of either individual tree or shrub or stand mass based on diameter are likely to be unreliable.
Diameter fails to reliably predict current mass owing to the past formation of wood (‘pipe’) that is no longer required to support the current foliage
This difficulty can only be overcome by the approach described above – measuring the volume/mass of individual segments.
Allometric models based on diameter can be used to predict branchwood and leaf mass, but only for branches where the underlying principles still hold
This is likely to be smaller, younger branches on trees and younger shrubs.
River Red Gum (Eucalyptus camaldulensis) and Coolabah (E. victrix ) are widespread throughout arid and semi-arid Australia and dominate creek- and stream-lines where they may comprise the bulk of ecosystem biomass
These species seldom grow with regular form and may live to considerable age, surviving fires, floods and drought but at the cost of increasingly irregular form.
This Appendix is written to provide guidance to a set of methods that allow both standard forestry approaches to be employed and, alternative approaches based on interpretation of crown area

### SITE AND SAMPLE SELECTION
As described elsewhere statistically rigorous development or calibration of predictive models requires a weighted selection of trees/shrubs for destructive sampling, based on the full range of mass and size of individual plants and on the proportional distribution of trees/shrubs within diameter/size classes.
Experience suggests that for the irregular trees and shrubs in arid and semi-arid regions, measurement of crown size in addition to diameter and height will help explain biomass distribution.
This requires an estimate of crown volume or, if resources are extremely limited, area (l x w).
Select sample trees and shrubs, for detailed measurements as described below

### ESTIMATING BIOMASS OF INDIVIDUAL WOODY SHRUBS
A variety of methods are available for estimating biomass of shrubs and understory components in woody ecosystems ([^Catchpole_1992_a]).
Sample individuals of each species should be measured for diameter at base and crown dimensions and height, and cut at ground level.
Total fresh weight should be measured in the field, as quickly as possible, and a representative sub-sample can be selected, weighed and taken away for later separation into components.
The generally multi-stemmed nature and convoluted pattern of branching of shrubs may well suggest that a path selection and importance sampling approach, as described in Section 2.4.2 would be the easiest approach for large individuals.
The total and component masses of a great many irregularly shaped shrub species does not depart greatly from that which can be predicted on the basis of simple measurements of diameter or cover.
Weigh total components and subsample for determination of conversion factor for estimation of wood and leaf biomass; and.

### ESTIMATING ABOVE-GROUND BIOMASS OF INDIVIDUAL TREES
The authors suggest that apart from the ‘chance’ incorporation of the true density measurements, rot will remain a source of error
It is quite clear, from studies in both Australia and overseas that for each species and for each form of each species, a separate analysis is required.
A brief description of a more time-consuming and labour-intensive approach that yields more accurate estimates of wood volume and leaf mass and area is described below.
This accounts for each ‘step’ in diameter, and volume, of each branch.
This approach allows for the development of regressions to predict leaf and wood mass and leaf area for branches where such relationships still hold

### REQUIRED MEASURES
1. Record – height, crown dimensions, basal diameter at 0.1 m, 1.3 m (DBH), diameter at crown break, height at crown break/stem split; 2.
1. Record – height, crown dimensions, basal diameter at 0.1 m, 1.3 m (DBH), diameter at crown break, height at crown break/stem split of every individual stem; 2.
1. Record – height, crown dimensions, basal diameter at 0.1 m, 1.3 m (DBH), diameter at crown break, height at crown break/stem split of every individual stem, if tree is leaning over and angle to ground surface; 3.
Sub-sample fresh weight of stem and branch wood to estimate dry weight and to calculate wood densities; and.
Sub-sample leaves to estimate dry weight and to calculate total leaf area

### EXAMPLES
Root extraction is a threestep process (Fig. 4.6): Step 1: The surface soil from around the stump and out to the sub-plot boundaries is excavated.
Pit back-filled with excavation soil and soil cores taken to sample roots missed in Steps 1 & 2.
The site was sampled to estimate fine root biomass by excavation of standard volumes or scoops; and.
Allometric relationships for predicting root biomass from stem circumference measured at 30 cm above ground level were developed for 3 different eucalypt species in woodlands in Central Queensland
These relationships were applied to survey data in order to estimate biomass at the community level.
Coarse root regressions were established by excavating trees in the external buffer area to the core plot.
Biomass of the lignotubers and main lateral roots was estimated for individual trees by excavation methods.

### FURTHER CONSIDERATIONS
A2.5.1 TAPER FUNCTIONS AND FRACTAL MODELS Fractals describe natural structures with selfsimilarities at different observational scales ([^Mandelbrot_1983_a]).
For root systems, this means that the overall branching patterns may be divided into subsections that have approximately the same appearance as the overall system.
Fractals are most useful when the self-similarity is high and for root systems this is dependent on the number of branching orders.
This is in turn dependent on environment and genotype.
It is recommended here that, where possible the additional data be collected in order to test the validity of fractal modelling as a way of predicting total root biomass

### Lateral roots
1. Carefully excavate the first part of the lateral roots at the stem base and where they arise from the root crown; 2.
Measure the basal diameters of all first order laterals and second order laterals > 0.5 cm.
For every first order lateral, measurements of root diameter at regular intervals (5, 10, 20, 50 cm, depending on root length) to determine taper functions for individual roots; 3.
Classify each of the lateral roots by their angle of orientation to the soil surface; and.
4. Calculate the sum of the root diameter squares for roots with a horizontal orientation

### Test of fractal branching assumptions
For each branching point where both the previous and subsequent links have been exposed, measure the diameter of each link.
After analyse the regression of α and link length on root diameter.
Analyse data by sorting the roots belonging to a common previous link and calculate the α parameter as D / before D .
If neither of these regressions has a significant slope the basic assumptions of fractal modelling are met.
If regressions of regression of α and link length on root diameter has a significant slope modified equations will have to be developed

### SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS
Temporal variation in root growth is most important in climates where there is a distinct seasonal difference in temperature or soil moisture content.
In the jarrah (Eucalyptus marginata) forests of Western Australia there can be a three or four-fold difference in total fine root biomass in the 0-20 cm of soil between the dry summer and wet winter months ([^Grierson_2001_a]).
The development of predictive relationships between above- and belowground biomass is complicated for coppice systems by the frequent replacement of biomass aboveground while belowground biomass remains relatively unchanged or even increases
This is true for mallee types of vegetation where individual lignotubers may be up to 2 m in diameter ([^Jacobs_1955_a]) and there have been reports of individual lignotubers of 75 m2 in size ([^Mullette_1978_a]).
In ecosystems that have a high fire frequency and lignotuberous species, knowledge of site history is essential to interpret data and develop the most robust relationships between above- and belowground biomass

### PREAMBLE
Direct estimation of tree biomass is a time consuming, labour intensive and costly procedure.
These procedures depend on the use of auxiliary variables that are more measured but closely related to the variable of interest.
The key to the application of these procedures depends on the development of a ratio or regression relationship between biomass and the auxiliary variable in a sample taken from the population of interest.
Once it has been established, the relationship can be applied to measurements of the auxiliary variable in the population so that biomass of the population can be estimated.
Details for destructive harvest of sample trees have been given above

### CHOICE OF SAMPLE TREES
Biomass studies have been carried out for a variety of purposes, eg. for testing hypotheses about treatments, about stand or ecosystem dynamics, biological processes etc.
Trees destructively sampled to provide data for developing a biomass estimator are chosen to represent the limited population of interest to the specific study.
A3.2.1 SAMPLE SIZE Many biomass studies have used only a small sample (4-12) of trees to estimate the regression relationship between variables.
A3.2.3 SUBJECTIVE SAMPLE CHOICE Many statistical aspects of the development and testing of regression relationships depend upon the assumption that the method of sampling is random in the statistical sense; that is, when for every element of the population the probability of being included in the sample is non-zero and known, at least in relative terms.
It is likely that non-random choice of sample trees will lead to under-estimation of the associated errors and may lead to biased estimates of biomass

### TREE MEASUREMENT AND CHOICE OF AUXILIARY VARIABLES
Many variables have been used in allometric and linear equations for estimating biomass.
Diameter at breast height (DBH) is the most widely used variable.
The relationship between diameter and height often varies over the geographic range of a species depending on site conditions.
In these circumstances equations including both DBH and height result in an improved relationship.
As a consequence biomass equations may vary with tree age reflecting the change in location of the reference point for diameter measurement relative to tree height.
Addition of a small positive constant value to the diameter measurement can substantially correct for measurement-location-induced curvilinearity in allometric relationships (Madgwick 1979).
Anon. 1995, [^Ellis_1997_a], [^Wood_et+al_1999_a])

### REGRESSION ESTIMATORS
A3.4.1 REGRESSION FUNCTIONS Regression functions are equations that relate biomass of vegetation components to auxiliary variables that are measured, such as tree dimensions.
In simple linear and multiple linear regression calculated by the ordinary least squares method the line of best fit is estimated so that the sum of the squares of deviations of the observed values from the expected values is minimised
This is appropriate when the errors are assumed to be normally distributed.
Logarithmic transformations to base e have been used to ensure: a) independence of mean and variance; and b) residuals conform to a normal distribution
These criteria are necessary to satisfy assumptions of statistical tests for the linear regression used in allometric methodology.
Where N is the number of trees in the stand and β0, βi are coefficients in the model
Such a simple relationship does not exist when non-linear methods such as the allometric equation are used.
Weighted regression can be used to overcome problems arising from heteroscedacity of errors

### RATIO ESTIMATORS
Ratio methods depend on estimating the ratio the variable of interest, eg. tree biomass, and a more measured auxiliary variable.
X auxiliary variable population Total for auxiliary variable in sample in population
This ratio of means estimator is a best linear unbiased estimator if the true relationship between the two variables is a straight line through the origin and the variance of the dependent variable about this line is proportional to the independent variable ([^Cochran_1977_a]).
For above-ground biomass the ratio is often formed between tree biomass and bole basal area ([^Madgwick_1981_a]) and is known as the basal area ratio method.
This is applied to basal area estimates obtained from variable radius plots.
Since the auxiliary variable contains a nonlinear component, the method is not as applied to point estimates of basal area.
If the auxiliary variable is derived from a measure of bole diameter taken at a fixed reference point, eg. at 1.3 m, inaccuracies in prediction will occur with small trees

### EXPANSION FACTORS
Stand- or forest-level estimates of total stemwood volume, merchantable wood volume or basal area are available for forests where timber is harvested
In these cases the most efficient estimate of biomass may be derived from application of wood density and expansion factors to stand inventory data.
Where the biomass (B), stem volume (V) and stem density (D) of individual sample trees have all been estimated from the methods outlined 3 the BEF can be estimated by re-arranging Equation A3.10: BEF = B/(V*D).
Note that both density and the biomass expansion factor are ratios.
The remarks made above regarding sample sizes etc. for ratio estimators should be applied to these estimators

### Findings
Material removed in saw cuts should be considered.
Calculate this initially and if the volume of saw cuts is more than 0.5% of a component the cuts should be accounted for.
If dried at 101-105°C dry weight will be 2 – 4% less and should be corrected to the 70°C standard.
3.2.5 ROOT DRY WEIGHT To determine dry weight, the washed and cleaned roots, or a representative sub-sample thereof, are dried in an oven at 70°C until no further weight change occurs

### STAND LEVEL ESTIMATES
In many biomass studies the populations of interest have been restricted to relatively small plots where it has been feasible to measure the auxiliary variable on all trees.
A3.7.1 CHOICE OF SAMPLE PLOTS Estimates of forest biomass can often be made by applying relationships as developed above to tree measurement data from existing plots.
A subjective choice may be made to exclude affected trees from the sample used to estimate the regression relationship
This can be accomplished by ensuring that sample plot boundaries are distant by more than an average tree’s height from the stand boundary or area of disturbance.
The error of the biomass regression which is affected by sampling design, sample size, estimation procedure and inherent variation in biomass values about the regression line
It has been common practice in forest inventory to ignore all sources of error except the first, it being implicitly assumed that the error due to the biomass regression function is small and can be ignored ([^Cunia_1983_a]).
It will provide a basis for assessing Australia’s progress towards meeting its international emissions commitments


## Study subjects

### 10 individuals
- Because the source tree of sampled roots is not known this is best done in multi-tree plots. ==As a guide such plots should include at least 10 individuals from the overstorey==. If individual trees were sampled to a set diameter limit then only those roots less than the diameter limit are retained

### 4 case studies
- Complementary methods are given for sampling small and/or distal roots. ==Four case studies are provided as examples==. Statistical considerations when choosing sample trees are discussed

### 5 samples
- An estimate of carbon concentration of each component sampled should be obtained for each ‘vegetation type’ x region combination. ==This should be based initially on ≥ 5 samples from each component, sampling each of the major species in a ‘vegetation type’==. Depending on the variability found more samples may be required ([^Gifford_2000_a])

## Data analysis
- #method/roth_c_model
- #method/ratio_estimators
- #method/linear_regression

## Findings
- Material removed in saw cuts should be considered. Calculate this initially and if the volume of saw cuts is more than 0.5% of a component then the cuts should be accounted for
- If dried at 101-105°C then dry weight will be 2 – 4% less and should be corrected to the 70°C standard
- 3.2.5 ROOT DRY WEIGHT To determine dry weight, the washed and cleaned roots, or a representative sub-sample thereof, are dried in an oven at 70°C until no further weight change occurs (or until less than 1% weight change after 24 hours)

## Differs from previous work
- It is quite clear, from studies in both Australia and overseas that for each species and for each form of each species, a separate analysis is required. ==The more straightforward issue of irregular form has been dealt with previously (eg. [^Valentine_et+al_1984_a]) and we suggest== [^de_Gier_1989_a]); [^de_Gier_1996_a]) provide excellent descriptions of path selection, and an importance sampling approach (see also Section 2.4)

## Future work
- In addition to the collection and weighing of roots, it is often helpful to record root forms in situ with a camera or using a sketch to note angles at which roots arise, if future work requires further exploration of the fractal dimensions of roots (see below). During the excavation procedure, careful measurements and drawings should be made of the root system in both the vertical and horizontal planes. Such data can be invaluable for interpreting distributions and the spatial variability of coring data.


## References
[^Andrew_et+al_1979_a]: Andrew, M.H., Noble I.R. & Lange R.T. (1979). A non-destructive method for estimating the weight of forage on shrubs. Australian Rangeland Journal 1: 225-231. [[Andrew_et+al_destructiveMethodEstimatingWeightForage_1979]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Andrew%2C%20M.H.%20R.%2C%20Noble%20I.%20T%2C%20Lange%20R.%20A%20non-destructive%20method%20for%20estimating%20the%20weight%20of%20forage%20on%20shrubs%201979) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Andrew%2C%20M.H.%20R.%2C%20Noble%20I.%20T%2C%20Lange%20R.%20A%20non-destructive%20method%20for%20estimating%20the%20weight%20of%20forage%20on%20shrubs%201979) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Andrew%2C%20M.H.%20R.%2C%20Noble%20I.%20T%2C%20Lange%20R.%20A%20non-destructive%20method%20for%20estimating%20the%20weight%20of%20forage%20on%20shrubs%201979)

[^Anon_1995_a]: Anon. (1995). Field methods manual. State Forests of New South Wales, Technical Paper No. 59. [[Anon_FieldMethodsManualStateForests_1995]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Anon%20Field%20methods%20manual.%20State%20Forests%20of%20New%20South%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Anon%20Field%20methods%20manual.%20State%20Forests%20of%20New%20South%201995) 

[^Attiwill_1962_a]: Attiwill, P.M. (1962). Estimating branch dry weight and leaf area from measurements of branch girth in Eucalyptus. Forest Science 8: 132-141. [[Attiwill_EstimatingBranchWeightLeafArea_1962]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Attiwill%2C%20P.M.%20Estimating%20branch%20dry%20weight%20and%20leaf%20area%20from%20measurements%20of%20branch%20girth%20in%20Eucalyptus%201962) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Attiwill%2C%20P.M.%20Estimating%20branch%20dry%20weight%20and%20leaf%20area%20from%20measurements%20of%20branch%20girth%20in%20Eucalyptus%201962) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Attiwill%2C%20P.M.%20Estimating%20branch%20dry%20weight%20and%20leaf%20area%20from%20measurements%20of%20branch%20girth%20in%20Eucalyptus%201962)

[^Baskerville_1972_a]: Baskerville, G.L. (1972). Use of logarithmic regression in the estimation of plant biomass. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 2: 49-53. [[Baskerville_LogarithmicRegressionEstimationPlantBiomass_1972]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Baskerville%2C%20G.L.%20Use%20of%20logarithmic%20regression%20in%20the%20estimation%20of%20plant%20biomass%201972) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Baskerville%2C%20G.L.%20Use%20of%20logarithmic%20regression%20in%20the%20estimation%20of%20plant%20biomass%201972) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Baskerville%2C%20G.L.%20Use%20of%20logarithmic%20regression%20in%20the%20estimation%20of%20plant%20biomass%201972)

[^Baxter_1994_a]: Baxter, J.T. & Russell, L.D. (1994). Land use mapping requirements for natural resource management in the Murray-Darling Basin. Project M305: Task 6. Department of Natural Resources, Victoria. [[Baxter_LandMappingRequirementsNaturalResource_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Baxter%2C%20J.T.%20Russell%2C%20L.D.%20Land%20use%20mapping%20requirements%20for%20natural%20resource%20management%20in%20the%20Murray-Darling%20Basin%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Baxter%2C%20J.T.%20Russell%2C%20L.D.%20Land%20use%20mapping%20requirements%20for%20natural%20resource%20management%20in%20the%20Murray-Darling%20Basin%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Baxter%2C%20J.T.%20Russell%2C%20L.D.%20Land%20use%20mapping%20requirements%20for%20natural%20resource%20management%20in%20the%20Murray-Darling%20Basin%201994)

[^Beauchamp_1973_a]: Beauchamp, J.J. & Olson, J.S. (1973). Correction for bias in regression estimates after logarithmic transformation. Ecology 54: 1403-1407. [[Beauchamp_CorrectionBiasRegressionEstimatesAfter_1973]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Beauchamp%2C%20J.J.%20Olson%2C%20J.S.%20Correction%20for%20bias%20in%20regression%20estimates%20after%20logarithmic%20transformation%201973) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Beauchamp%2C%20J.J.%20Olson%2C%20J.S.%20Correction%20for%20bias%20in%20regression%20estimates%20after%20logarithmic%20transformation%201973) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Beauchamp%2C%20J.J.%20Olson%2C%20J.S.%20Correction%20for%20bias%20in%20regression%20estimates%20after%20logarithmic%20transformation%201973)

[^Bengough_et+al_2000_a]: Bengough A.G., Castrignano A., Pagès, L. & van Noordwijk, M. (2000). Sampling strategies, scaling and statistics. In Root Methods. A Handbook. (Eds Smit, A. M. et al.) pp. 147-173. (Springer-Verlag, Berlin). [[Bengough_et+al_SamplingStrategiesScalingStatisticsIn_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=G.%2C%20Bengough%20A.%20A.%2C%20Castrignano%20Pag%C3%A8s%2C%20L.%20van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Sampling%20strategies%2C%20scaling%20and%20statistics.%20In%20Root%20Methods.%20A%20Handbook%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=G.%2C%20Bengough%20A.%20A.%2C%20Castrignano%20Pag%C3%A8s%2C%20L.%20van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Sampling%20strategies%2C%20scaling%20and%20statistics.%20In%20Root%20Methods.%20A%20Handbook%202000) 

[^Bi_1999_a]: Bi, H. (1999). Predicting stem volume to any height for native tree species in Southern New South Wales and Victoria. New Zealand Journal of Forestry Science 29: 318-331. [[Bi_PredictingStemVolumeHeightNative_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bi%2C%20H.%20Predicting%20stem%20volume%20to%20any%20height%20for%20native%20tree%20species%20in%20Southern%20New%20South%20Wales%20and%20Victoria%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bi%2C%20H.%20Predicting%20stem%20volume%20to%20any%20height%20for%20native%20tree%20species%20in%20Southern%20New%20South%20Wales%20and%20Victoria%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bi%2C%20H.%20Predicting%20stem%20volume%20to%20any%20height%20for%20native%20tree%20species%20in%20Southern%20New%20South%20Wales%20and%20Victoria%201999)

[^Bi_1998_a]: Bi, H. & Hamilon, F. (1998). Stem volume equations for native tree species in southern New South Wales and Victoria. Australian Forestry 61: 275-286. [[Bi_StemVolumeEquationsNativeTree_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bi%2C%20H.%20Hamilon%2C%20F.%20Stem%20volume%20equations%20for%20native%20tree%20species%20in%20southern%20New%20South%20Wales%20and%20Victoria%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bi%2C%20H.%20Hamilon%2C%20F.%20Stem%20volume%20equations%20for%20native%20tree%20species%20in%20southern%20New%20South%20Wales%20and%20Victoria%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bi%2C%20H.%20Hamilon%2C%20F.%20Stem%20volume%20equations%20for%20native%20tree%20species%20in%20southern%20New%20South%20Wales%20and%20Victoria%201998)

[^Bitterlich_1947_a]: Bitterlich, W. (1947). Die Winkelzahlmessung. Allgemeine Forst- und Holzwirtschaftliche Zeitung 58: (11) 94-96. [[Bitterlich_WinkelzahlmessungAllgemeineForstHolzwirtschaftliche_1947]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bitterlich%2C%20W.%20Die%20Winkelzahlmessung.%20Allgemeine%20Forst-%20und%20Holzwirtschaftliche%201947) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bitterlich%2C%20W.%20Die%20Winkelzahlmessung.%20Allgemeine%20Forst-%20und%20Holzwirtschaftliche%201947) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bitterlich%2C%20W.%20Die%20Winkelzahlmessung.%20Allgemeine%20Forst-%20und%20Holzwirtschaftliche%201947)

[^Boehm_1979_a]: Böhm, W. (1979). Methods of Studying Root Systems. Springer-Verlag, Berlin 88 p. [[Boehm_MethodsStudyingRootSystems_1979]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=B%C3%B6hm%2C%20W.%20Methods%20of%20Studying%20Root%20Systems%201979) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=B%C3%B6hm%2C%20W.%20Methods%20of%20Studying%20Root%20Systems%201979) 

[^Bootle_1983_a]: Bootle, K.R. (1983). Wood in Australia. Types, Properties and Uses. (Mcgraw-Hill Book Company, Sydney). 443 p. [[Bootle_WoodAustraliaTypesPropertiesUses_1983]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bootle%2C%20K.R.%20Wood%20in%20Australia.%20Types%2C%20Properties%20and%20Uses%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bootle%2C%20K.R.%20Wood%20in%20Australia.%20Types%2C%20Properties%20and%20Uses%201983) 

[^Brack_1998_a]: Brack, C. & Wood, G. (1998). Forest mensuration and modelling. http://www.anu.edu.au/Forestry/mensuration/ [[Brack_ForestMensurationModelling_1998]] [OA](http://www.anu.edu.au/Forestry/mensuration/)  

[^Brown_1997_a]: Brown, S. (1997). Estimating biomass and biomass change of tropical forests: A primer, Rep. No. 134. FAO, Rome. 55 p. [[Brown_EstimatingBiomassBiomassChangeTropical_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brown%2C%20S.%20Estimating%20biomass%20and%20biomass%20change%20of%20tropical%20forests%3A%20A%20primer%2C%20Rep.%20No.%20134.%20FAO%2C%20Rome%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brown%2C%20S.%20Estimating%20biomass%20and%20biomass%20change%20of%20tropical%20forests%3A%20A%20primer%2C%20Rep.%20No.%20134.%20FAO%2C%20Rome%201997) 

[^Burrows_et+al_2000_a]: Burrows, W.H., Hoffmann M.B., Compton J.F., Back P.V. & Tait L.J. (2000). Allometric relationships and community biomass estimates for some dominant eucalypts in Central Queensland woodlands. Australian Journal of Botany 48: 707-714. [[Burrows_et+al_AllometricRelationshipsCommunityBiomassEstimates_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Burrows%2C%20W.H.%20B.%2C%20Hoffmann%20M.%20F.%2C%20Compton%20J.%20V.%2C%20Back%20P.%20Allometric%20relationships%20and%20community%20biomass%20estimates%20for%20some%20dominant%20eucalypts%20in%20Central%20Queensland%20woodlands%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Burrows%2C%20W.H.%20B.%2C%20Hoffmann%20M.%20F.%2C%20Compton%20J.%20V.%2C%20Back%20P.%20Allometric%20relationships%20and%20community%20biomass%20estimates%20for%20some%20dominant%20eucalypts%20in%20Central%20Queensland%20woodlands%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Burrows%2C%20W.H.%20B.%2C%20Hoffmann%20M.%20F.%2C%20Compton%20J.%20V.%2C%20Back%20P.%20Allometric%20relationships%20and%20community%20biomass%20estimates%20for%20some%20dominant%20eucalypts%20in%20Central%20Queensland%20woodlands%202000)

[^Canadell_1995_a]: Canadell, J. & Zedler P.H. (1995). Underground structures of woody plants in mediterranean ecosystems of Australia, California and Chile. In Ecology and Biogeography of mediterranean Ecosystems in Chile, California, and Australia. pp. 177-210 (Springer-Verlag, Berlin). [[Canadell_UndergroundStructuresWoodyPlantsMediterranean_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Canadell%2C%20J.%20H%2C%20Zedler%20P.%20Underground%20structures%20of%20woody%20plants%20in%20mediterranean%20ecosystems%20of%20Australia%2C%20California%20and%20Chile%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Canadell%2C%20J.%20H%2C%20Zedler%20P.%20Underground%20structures%20of%20woody%20plants%20in%20mediterranean%20ecosystems%20of%20Australia%2C%20California%20and%20Chile%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Canadell%2C%20J.%20H%2C%20Zedler%20P.%20Underground%20structures%20of%20woody%20plants%20in%20mediterranean%20ecosystems%20of%20Australia%2C%20California%20and%20Chile%201995)

[^Carron_1968_a]: Carron, L.T. (1968). An outline of forest mensuration with special reference to Australia. Australian National University Press, Canberra. [[Carron_OutlineForestMensurationWithSpecial_1968]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Carron%2C%20L.T.%20An%20outline%20of%20forest%20mensuration%20with%20special%20reference%20to%20Australia%201968) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Carron%2C%20L.T.%20An%20outline%20of%20forest%20mensuration%20with%20special%20reference%20to%20Australia%201968) 

[^Carter_1994_a]: Carter, P. (1994). Factors influencing stand volume increment in regrowth Eucalypt forests in N.S.W.: Provisional results from the PGP system. Unpublished report. (State Forests of NSW Sydney) 34 p. [[Carter_FactorsInfluencingStandVolumeIncrement_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Carter%2C%20P.%20Factors%20influencing%20stand%20volume%20increment%20in%20regrowth%20Eucalypt%20forests%20in%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Carter%2C%20P.%20Factors%20influencing%20stand%20volume%20increment%20in%20regrowth%20Eucalypt%20forests%20in%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Carter%2C%20P.%20Factors%20influencing%20stand%20volume%20increment%20in%20regrowth%20Eucalypt%20forests%20in%201994)

[^Catchpole_1992_a]: Catchpole, W.R. & Wheeler, C.J. (1992). Estimating plant biomass: a review of techniques. Australian Journal of Ecology 17: 121-131. [[Catchpole_EstimatingPlantBiomassReviewTechniques_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Catchpole%2C%20W.R.%20Wheeler%2C%20C.J.%20Estimating%20plant%20biomass%3A%20a%20review%20of%20techniques%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Catchpole%2C%20W.R.%20Wheeler%2C%20C.J.%20Estimating%20plant%20biomass%3A%20a%20review%20of%20techniques%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Catchpole%2C%20W.R.%20Wheeler%2C%20C.J.%20Estimating%20plant%20biomass%3A%20a%20review%20of%20techniques%201992)

[^Cherry_et+al_1998_a]: Cherry, M., Hingston, A., Battaglia, M. & Beadle, C. (1998). Calibrating the LI-COR LAI-2000 for estimating leaf area index in eucalypt plantations. Tasforest 10: 75-82. [[Cherry_et+al_CalibratingLicorLai2000EstimatingLeaf_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cherry%2C%20M.%20Hingston%2C%20A.%20Battaglia%2C%20M.%20Beadle%2C%20C.%20Calibrating%20the%20LI-COR%20LAI-2000%20for%20estimating%20leaf%20area%20index%20in%20eucalypt%20plantations%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cherry%2C%20M.%20Hingston%2C%20A.%20Battaglia%2C%20M.%20Beadle%2C%20C.%20Calibrating%20the%20LI-COR%20LAI-2000%20for%20estimating%20leaf%20area%20index%20in%20eucalypt%20plantations%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cherry%2C%20M.%20Hingston%2C%20A.%20Battaglia%2C%20M.%20Beadle%2C%20C.%20Calibrating%20the%20LI-COR%20LAI-2000%20for%20estimating%20leaf%20area%20index%20in%20eucalypt%20plantations%201998)

[^Clark_1979_a]: Clark, A. (1979). Suggested procedures for measuring tree biomass and reporting tree prediction equations. In Frayer, W. E., (ed.) "Forest Resource Inventories" Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado, U.S.A, pp. 615-628. [[Clark_SuggestedProceduresMeasuringTreeBiomass_1979]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Clark%2C%20A.%20Suggested%20procedures%20for%20measuring%20tree%20biomass%20and%20reporting%20tree%20prediction%20equations%201979) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Clark%2C%20A.%20Suggested%20procedures%20for%20measuring%20tree%20biomass%20and%20reporting%20tree%20prediction%20equations%201979) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Clark%2C%20A.%20Suggested%20procedures%20for%20measuring%20tree%20biomass%20and%20reporting%20tree%20prediction%20equations%201979)

[^Cochran_1977_a]: Cochran, W.G. (1977). Sampling Techniques. 3rd ed. (John Wiley & Sons, New York). [[Cochran_SamplingTechniques_1977]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cochran%2C%20W.G.%20Sampling%20Techniques%201977) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cochran%2C%20W.G.%20Sampling%20Techniques%201977) 

[^Cunia_1987_a]: Cunia, T. (1987). Error of forest inventory estimates: its main components. In Wharton, E.H. & Cunia, T. (Compilers) Estimating tree biomass regressions and their error. Proceedings of the workshop on tree biomass regression functions and their contribution to the error of forest inventory estimates. May 26-30, 1986, SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry, Syracuse, NY. USDA Forest Service General Technical Bulletin NE-GTR-117, pp. 1-13. [[Cunia_ErrorForestInventoryEstimatesMain_1987]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cunia%2C%20T.%20Error%20of%20forest%20inventory%20estimates%3A%20its%20main%20components%201987-05-26) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cunia%2C%20T.%20Error%20of%20forest%20inventory%20estimates%3A%20its%20main%20components%201987-05-26) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cunia%2C%20T.%20Error%20of%20forest%20inventory%20estimates%3A%20its%20main%20components%201987-05-26)

[^Cunia_1984_a]: Cunia, T. & Briggs, R.D. (1984). Forcing additivity of biomass tables: some empirical results. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 14: 376-384. [[Cunia_ForcingAdditivityBiomassTablesSome_1984]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cunia%2C%20T.%20Briggs%2C%20R.D.%20Forcing%20additivity%20of%20biomass%20tables%3A%20some%20empirical%20results%201984) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cunia%2C%20T.%20Briggs%2C%20R.D.%20Forcing%20additivity%20of%20biomass%20tables%3A%20some%20empirical%20results%201984) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cunia%2C%20T.%20Briggs%2C%20R.D.%20Forcing%20additivity%20of%20biomass%20tables%3A%20some%20empirical%20results%201984)

[^Cunia_1985_a]: Cunia, T. & Briggs, R.D. (1985). Forcing additivity of biomass tables: use of the generalised least squares method. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 15: 23-28. [[Cunia_ForcingAdditivityBiomassTablesGeneralised_1985]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cunia%2C%20T.%20Briggs%2C%20R.D.%20Forcing%20additivity%20of%20biomass%20tables%3A%20use%20of%20the%20generalised%20least%20squares%20method%201985) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cunia%2C%20T.%20Briggs%2C%20R.D.%20Forcing%20additivity%20of%20biomass%20tables%3A%20use%20of%20the%20generalised%20least%20squares%20method%201985) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cunia%2C%20T.%20Briggs%2C%20R.D.%20Forcing%20additivity%20of%20biomass%20tables%3A%20use%20of%20the%20generalised%20least%20squares%20method%201985)

[^Cunia_1983_a]: Cunia, T. & Michelakackas, J. (1983). On the error of tree biomass tables constructed by a two-phase sampling design. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 13: 303-313. [[Cunia_ErrorTreeBiomassTablesConstructed_1983]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cunia%2C%20T.%20Michelakackas%2C%20J.%20On%20the%20error%20of%20tree%20biomass%20tables%20constructed%20by%20a%20two-phase%20sampling%20design%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cunia%2C%20T.%20Michelakackas%2C%20J.%20On%20the%20error%20of%20tree%20biomass%20tables%20constructed%20by%20a%20two-phase%20sampling%20design%201983) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cunia%2C%20T.%20Michelakackas%2C%20J.%20On%20the%20error%20of%20tree%20biomass%20tables%20constructed%20by%20a%20two-phase%20sampling%20design%201983)

[^de_Gier_1989_a]: De Gier, A. (1989) Woody biomass for fuel – estimating the supply in natural woodlands and shrublands. ITC Publication No. 9. (Enschede, The Netherlands). [[de_Gier_WoodyBiomassFuelEstimating_1989]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=De%20Gier%2C%20A.%20Woody%20biomass%20for%20fuel%20%E2%80%93%20estimating%20the%20supply%20in%20natural%20woodlands%20and%20shrublands.%20ITC%20Publication%20No.%209%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=De%20Gier%2C%20A.%20Woody%20biomass%20for%20fuel%20%E2%80%93%20estimating%20the%20supply%20in%20natural%20woodlands%20and%20shrublands.%20ITC%20Publication%20No.%209%201989) 

[^de_Gier_1996_a]: De Gier, A. & Sakouhi, A. (1996). Woody biomass mapping, using field data and SPOT- sattelite imagery. In Paivinen, R., Vanclay, J., and Miina, S. New Thrusts in Forest Inventory. EFI Proceedings No. 7. (European Forest Institute), pp. 205-211. [[de_Gier_WoodyBiomassMappingUsingField_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=De%20Gier%2C%20A.%20Sakouhi%2C%20A.%20Woody%20biomass%20mapping%2C%20using%20field%20data%20and%20SPOT-%20sattelite%20imagery%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=De%20Gier%2C%20A.%20Sakouhi%2C%20A.%20Woody%20biomass%20mapping%2C%20using%20field%20data%20and%20SPOT-%20sattelite%20imagery%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=De%20Gier%2C%20A.%20Sakouhi%2C%20A.%20Woody%20biomass%20mapping%2C%20using%20field%20data%20and%20SPOT-%20sattelite%20imagery%201996)

[^de_Vries_1974_a]: De Vries, P.G. (1974). Multi-stage line intersect sampling. Forest Science 20: 129-133. [[de_Vries_MultistageLineIntersectSampling_1974]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=De%20Vries%2C%20P.G.%20Multi-stage%20line%20intersect%20sampling%201974) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=De%20Vries%2C%20P.G.%20Multi-stage%20line%20intersect%20sampling%201974) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=De%20Vries%2C%20P.G.%20Multi-stage%20line%20intersect%20sampling%201974)

[^Downes_1997_a]: Downes, G.M. & Raymond, C.A. (1997). Variations in wood density in plantation eucalypts. In Sampling plantation eucalypts for wood and fibre properties (Downes, G.M., Hudson, I.L., Raymond, C.A., Dean, G.H., Michell, A.J., Schimleck L.R., Evans R. & Muneri, A). CSIRO Publishing, Australia. [[Downes_VariationsWoodDensityPlantationEucalypts_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Downes%2C%20G.M.%20Raymond%2C%20C.A.%20Variations%20in%20wood%20density%20in%20plantation%20eucalypts.%20In%20Sampling%20plantation%20eucalypts%20for%20wood%20and%20fibre%20properties%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Downes%2C%20G.M.%20Raymond%2C%20C.A.%20Variations%20in%20wood%20density%20in%20plantation%20eucalypts.%20In%20Sampling%20plantation%20eucalypts%20for%20wood%20and%20fibre%20properties%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Downes%2C%20G.M.%20Raymond%2C%20C.A.%20Variations%20in%20wood%20density%20in%20plantation%20eucalypts.%20In%20Sampling%20plantation%20eucalypts%20for%20wood%20and%20fibre%20properties%201997)

[^Ellis_1997_a]: Ellis, J.C. & Hayes, J.D. (1997). Field guide for sample plots in New Zealand forests. New Zealand Forest Research Institute Bulletin 186, 84 p. [[Ellis_FieldGuideSamplePlotsNew_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ellis%2C%20J.C.%20Hayes%2C%20J.D.%20Field%20guide%20for%20sample%20plots%20in%20New%20Zealand%20forests%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ellis%2C%20J.C.%20Hayes%2C%20J.D.%20Field%20guide%20for%20sample%20plots%20in%20New%20Zealand%20forests%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ellis%2C%20J.C.%20Hayes%2C%20J.D.%20Field%20guide%20for%20sample%20plots%20in%20New%20Zealand%20forests%201997)

[^Eyre_et+al_2000_a]: Eyre, T.J., Jerym, D. & Kelly, A.l. (2000). Forest condition and habitat assessment in Queensland. Queensland Department of Natural Resources, Standards for Forest Assessment Technical Report 02/00. [[Eyre_et+al_ForestConditionHabitatAssessmentQueensland_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Eyre%2C%20T.J.%20Jerym%2C%20D.%20Kelly%2C%20Al%20Forest%20condition%20and%20habitat%20assessment%20in%20Queensland.%20Queensland%20Department%20of%20Natural%20Resources%2C%20Standards%20for%20Forest%20Assessment%20Technical%20Report%2002/00%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Eyre%2C%20T.J.%20Jerym%2C%20D.%20Kelly%2C%20Al%20Forest%20condition%20and%20habitat%20assessment%20in%20Queensland.%20Queensland%20Department%20of%20Natural%20Resources%2C%20Standards%20for%20Forest%20Assessment%20Technical%20Report%2002/00%202000) 

[^Flewelling_1981_a]: Flewelling, J.W. & Pienarr, L.V. (1981). Multiplicative regression with lognormal errors. Forest Science 27: 281-289. [[Flewelling_MultiplicativeRegressionWithLognormalErrors_1981]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Flewelling%2C%20J.W.%20Pienarr%2C%20L.V.%20Multiplicative%20regression%20with%20lognormal%20errors%201981) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Flewelling%2C%20J.W.%20Pienarr%2C%20L.V.%20Multiplicative%20regression%20with%20lognormal%20errors%201981) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Flewelling%2C%20J.W.%20Pienarr%2C%20L.V.%20Multiplicative%20regression%20with%20lognormal%20errors%201981)

[^Forrest_1968_a]: Forrest, W.G. (1968). The estimation of oven dry weight. Australian Forest Research 3 (2): 41-46. [[Forrest_EstimationOvenWeightAustralianForest_1968]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Forrest%2C%20W.G.%20The%20estimation%20of%20oven%20dry%20weight.%20Australian%20Forest%20Research%203%201968) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Forrest%2C%20W.G.%20The%20estimation%20of%20oven%20dry%20weight.%20Australian%20Forest%20Research%203%201968) 

[^Frederick_et+al_1979_a]: Frederick, D.J., Gardner, W.E., Clark, A., Phillips, D. & Williford, M. (1979). Biomass, nutrient and energy estimation of mixed southern hardwoods using an area sampling technique. In Frayer, W.E, (Ed.) "Forest Resource Inventories" Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado, U.S.A, pp. 714-724. [[Frederick_et+al_BiomassNutrientEnergyEstimationMixed_1979]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Frederick%2C%20D.J.%20Gardner%2C%20W.E.%20Clark%2C%20A.%20Phillips%2C%20D.%20Biomass%2C%20nutrient%20and%20energy%20estimation%20of%20mixed%20southern%20hardwoods%20using%20an%20area%20sampling%20technique%201979) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Frederick%2C%20D.J.%20Gardner%2C%20W.E.%20Clark%2C%20A.%20Phillips%2C%20D.%20Biomass%2C%20nutrient%20and%20energy%20estimation%20of%20mixed%20southern%20hardwoods%20using%20an%20area%20sampling%20technique%201979) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Frederick%2C%20D.J.%20Gardner%2C%20W.E.%20Clark%2C%20A.%20Phillips%2C%20D.%20Biomass%2C%20nutrient%20and%20energy%20estimation%20of%20mixed%20southern%20hardwoods%20using%20an%20area%20sampling%20technique%201979)

[^Gadow_1999_a]: Gadow, K. von. & Hui, G. (1999). Modelling forest development. Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht, 211 p. [[Gadow_ModellingForestDevelopment_1999]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gadow%2C%20K.von%20Hui%2C%20G.%20Modelling%20forest%20development%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gadow%2C%20K.von%20Hui%2C%20G.%20Modelling%20forest%20development%201999) 

[^Gifford_2000_a]: Gifford, R. (2000). Carbon Content of Woody Roots: Revised Analysis and a Comparison with Woody Shoot Components. National Carbon Accounting System Technical Report No. 7 (Revision 1). Australian Greenhouse Office, Canberra, 10 p. [[Gifford_CarbonContentWoodyRootsRevised_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gifford%2C%20R.%20Carbon%20Content%20of%20Woody%20Roots%3A%20Revised%20Analysis%20and%20a%20Comparison%20with%20Woody%20Shoot%20Components.%20National%20Carbon%20Accounting%20System%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gifford%2C%20R.%20Carbon%20Content%20of%20Woody%20Roots%3A%20Revised%20Analysis%20and%20a%20Comparison%20with%20Woody%20Shoot%20Components.%20National%20Carbon%20Accounting%20System%202000) 

[^Gregoire_et+al_1995_a]: Gregoire, T.G., Valentine, H.T. & Furnival, G.M. (1995). Sampling methods to estimate foliage and other characteristics of individual trees. Ecology 76: 11811194. [[Gregoire_et+al_SamplingMethodsEstimateFoliageOther_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gregoire%2C%20T.G.%20Valentine%2C%20H.T.%20Furnival%2C%20G.M.%20Sampling%20methods%20to%20estimate%20foliage%20and%20other%20characteristics%20of%20individual%20trees%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gregoire%2C%20T.G.%20Valentine%2C%20H.T.%20Furnival%2C%20G.M.%20Sampling%20methods%20to%20estimate%20foliage%20and%20other%20characteristics%20of%20individual%20trees%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gregoire%2C%20T.G.%20Valentine%2C%20H.T.%20Furnival%2C%20G.M.%20Sampling%20methods%20to%20estimate%20foliage%20and%20other%20characteristics%20of%20individual%20trees%201995)

[^Grierson_2001_a]: Grierson P.F. & Adams M.A. (2001). Temporal and spatial variations in biomass and 13C of fine roots in a jarrah (Eucalyptus marginata (Donn ex Sm)) forest in south-western Australia. [[Grierson_TemporalSpatialVariationsBiomass13c_2001]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=F.%2C%20Grierson%20P.%20A%2C%20Adams%20M.%20Temporal%20and%20spatial%20variations%20in%20biomass%20and%2013C%20of%20fine%20roots%20in%20a%20jarrah%20%28Eucalyptus%20marginata%20%28Donn%20ex%20Sm%29%29%20forest%20in%20south-western%20Australia%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=F.%2C%20Grierson%20P.%20A%2C%20Adams%20M.%20Temporal%20and%20spatial%20variations%20in%20biomass%20and%2013C%20of%20fine%20roots%20in%20a%20jarrah%20%28Eucalyptus%20marginata%20%28Donn%20ex%20Sm%29%29%20forest%20in%20south-western%20Australia%202001) 

[^G_2001_a]: GRO (2001). Bush for Greenhouse. Field Measurement prodedures for Carbon Accounting. Volume 2. Field Measurement Procedures. Report to the Australian Greenhouse Office by Greenfields Resource Options Pty. Ltd. 91 p. [[G_BushGreenhouseFieldMeasurementProdedures_2001]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=G.R.O.%20Bush%20for%20Greenhouse.%20Field%20Measurement%20prodedures%20for%20Carbon%20Accounting.%20Volume%202.%20Field%20Measurement%20Procedures.%20Report%20to%20the%20Australian%20Greenhouse%20Office%20by%20Greenfields%20Resource%20Options%20Pty%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=G.R.O.%20Bush%20for%20Greenhouse.%20Field%20Measurement%20prodedures%20for%20Carbon%20Accounting.%20Volume%202.%20Field%20Measurement%20Procedures.%20Report%20to%20the%20Australian%20Greenhouse%20Office%20by%20Greenfields%20Resource%20Options%20Pty%202001) 

[^Hamilton_et+al_1999_a]: Hamilton, F., Penny, R., Black, P., Cumming, F. & Irvine M. (1999). Victoria’s Statewide Forest Resource Inventory – an outline of methods. Australian Forestry 62: 353-359. [[Hamilton_et+al_VictoriaStatewideForestResourceInventory_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hamilton%2C%20F.%20Penny%2C%20R.%20Black%2C%20P.%20Cumming%2C%20F.%20Victoria%E2%80%99s%20Statewide%20Forest%20Resource%20Inventory%20%E2%80%93%20an%20outline%20of%20methods%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hamilton%2C%20F.%20Penny%2C%20R.%20Black%2C%20P.%20Cumming%2C%20F.%20Victoria%E2%80%99s%20Statewide%20Forest%20Resource%20Inventory%20%E2%80%93%20an%20outline%20of%20methods%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hamilton%2C%20F.%20Penny%2C%20R.%20Black%2C%20P.%20Cumming%2C%20F.%20Victoria%E2%80%99s%20Statewide%20Forest%20Resource%20Inventory%20%E2%80%93%20an%20outline%20of%20methods%201999)

[^Harmon_1996_a]: Harmon, M.E. & Sexton, J. (1996). Guidelines for Measurements of Woody Detritus in Forest Ecosystems. [http://www.lternet.edu/documents/publications/woodydetritus/] [[Harmon_GuidelinesMeasurementsWoodyDetritusForest_1996]] [OA](http://www.lternet.edu/documents/publications/woodydetritus/])  

[^Huxley_1936_a]: Huxley, J.S. & Teissier, G. (1936). Terminology of relative growth. Nature 137: 780-781. [[Huxley_TerminologyRelativeGrowth_1936]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Huxley%2C%20J.S.%20Teissier%2C%20G.%20Terminology%20of%20relative%20growth%201936) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Huxley%2C%20J.S.%20Teissier%2C%20G.%20Terminology%20of%20relative%20growth%201936) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Huxley%2C%20J.S.%20Teissier%2C%20G.%20Terminology%20of%20relative%20growth%201936)

[^Ilic_et+al_2001_a]: Ilic, J., Boland, D.J., Mcdonald, M., Downes, G. & Blakemore, P. (2001). Wood Density Phase 1. National Carbon Accounting System Technical Report No. 18, Australian Greenhouse Office, Canberra, 218 p. [[Ilic_et+al_WoodDensityPhase1National_2001]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ilic%2C%20J.%20Boland%2C%20D.J.%20Mcdonald%2C%20M.%20Downes%2C%20G.%20Wood%20Density%20Phase%201.%20National%20Carbon%20Accounting%20System%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ilic%2C%20J.%20Boland%2C%20D.J.%20Mcdonald%2C%20M.%20Downes%2C%20G.%20Wood%20Density%20Phase%201.%20National%20Carbon%20Accounting%20System%202001) 

[^Change_et+al_1997_a]: IPCC (1997). Landuse change and forestry. In Houghton, J.T., Meira Filho, L.G., Lim, B., Treaton, K., Mamaty, I., Bonduki, Y., Griggs, D.J. & Callander, B.A. (eds.) Revised 1996 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Reference Manual, Volume 3. (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). [http://www.ipccnggip.iges.or.jp/public/gl/invs6d.html. [[Change_et+al_Revised1996IpccGuidelinesNational_1997]] [OA](http://www.ipccnggip.iges.or.jp/public/gl/invs6d.html)  

[^Jacobs_1955_a]: Jacobs, M.R. (1955). Growth habits of the eucalypts. Commonwealth Forest Timber Bureau: Canberra. [[Jacobs_GrowthHabitsEucalyptsCommonwealthForest_1955]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jacobs%2C%20M.R.%20Growth%20habits%20of%20the%20eucalypts.%20Commonwealth%20Forest%20Timber%201955) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jacobs%2C%20M.R.%20Growth%20habits%20of%20the%20eucalypts.%20Commonwealth%20Forest%20Timber%201955) 

[^Jessen_1955_a]: Jessen, R.J. (1955). Determining the fruit count on a tree by randomised branch sampling. Biometrics 11: 99-109. [[Jessen_DeterminingFruitCountTreeRandomised_1955]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jessen%2C%20R.J.%20Determining%20the%20fruit%20count%20on%20a%20tree%20by%20randomised%20branch%20sampling%201955) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jessen%2C%20R.J.%20Determining%20the%20fruit%20count%20on%20a%20tree%20by%20randomised%20branch%20sampling%201955) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jessen%2C%20R.J.%20Determining%20the%20fruit%20count%20on%20a%20tree%20by%20randomised%20branch%20sampling%201955)

[^Kimber_1974_a]: Kimber, P.C. (1974). The root system of jarrah (Eucalyptus marginata). Forests Deptartment WA Research Paper 10, Perth. [[Kimber_RootSystemJarraheucalyptusMarginata_1974]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kimber%2C%20P.C.%20The%20root%20system%20of%20jarrah%20%28Eucalyptus%20marginata%29.%20Forests%20Deptartment%20WA%201974) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kimber%2C%20P.C.%20The%20root%20system%20of%20jarrah%20%28Eucalyptus%20marginata%29.%20Forests%20Deptartment%20WA%201974) 

[^Macdicken_1997_a]: MacDicken, K.G. (1997). A quick guide to monitoring carbon storage in forestry and agroforestry projects. (Winrock International Institute for Agricultural Development, Forest Carbon Monitoring Program, Arlington, Va.). Electronic access: http://www.win rock.org/REEP/forest_carbon_monitoring_program.htm. [[Macdicken_QuickGuideMonitoringCarbonStorage_1997]] [OA](http://www.win)  

[^Madgwick_1981_a]: Madgwick, H.A.I. (1981). Estimating the aboveground weight of forest plots using the basal area ratio method. New Zealand Journal of Forestry Science 11: 278-286. [[Madgwick_EstimatingAbovegroundWeightForestPlots_1981]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Madgwick%2C%20H.A.I.%20Estimating%20the%20aboveground%20weight%20of%20forest%20plots%20using%20the%20basal%20area%20ratio%20method%201981) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Madgwick%2C%20H.A.I.%20Estimating%20the%20aboveground%20weight%20of%20forest%20plots%20using%20the%20basal%20area%20ratio%20method%201981) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Madgwick%2C%20H.A.I.%20Estimating%20the%20aboveground%20weight%20of%20forest%20plots%20using%20the%20basal%20area%20ratio%20method%201981)

[^Mandelbrot_1983_a]: Mandelbrot, B.B. (1983). The Fractal Geometry of Nature. Freeman, New York. [[Mandelbrot_FractalGeometryNature_1983]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mandelbrot%2C%20B.B.%20The%20Fractal%20Geometry%20of%20Nature%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mandelbrot%2C%20B.B.%20The%20Fractal%20Geometry%20of%20Nature%201983) 

[^Mcdonald_et+al_1990_a]: McDonald, R.C., Isbell, R. F., Speight, J.G., Walker, J. & Hopkins, M.S. (eds.) (1990). Australian Soil and Land Survey Handbook - Field Handbook. 2nd ed. (Inkata Press: Melbourne), 198 p. [[Mcdonald_et+al_AustralianSoilLandSurveyHandbook_1990]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=McDonald%2C%20R.C.%20Isbell%2C%20R.F.%20Speight%2C%20J.G.%20Walker%2C%20J.%20Australian%20Soil%20and%20Land%20Survey%20Handbook%20-%20Field%20Handbook%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=McDonald%2C%20R.C.%20Isbell%2C%20R.F.%20Speight%2C%20J.G.%20Walker%2C%20J.%20Australian%20Soil%20and%20Land%20Survey%20Handbook%20-%20Field%20Handbook%201990) 

[^Mckenzie_et+al_2001_a]: McKenzie, N., Ryan, P., Fogarty, P. & Wood, J. (2001). Sampling, measurement and analytical protocols for carbon estimation in soil, litter and coarse woody debris. National Carbon Accounting System Technical Report No. 14, Australian Greenhouse Office, Canberra, 61 p. [[Mckenzie_et+al_SamplingMeasurementAnalyticalProtocolsCarbon_2001]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=McKenzie%2C%20N.%20Ryan%2C%20P.%20Fogarty%2C%20P.%20Wood%2C%20J.%20Sampling%2C%20measurement%20and%20analytical%20protocols%20for%20carbon%20estimation%20in%20soil%2C%20litter%20and%20coarse%20woody%20debris.%20National%20Carbon%20Accounting%20System%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=McKenzie%2C%20N.%20Ryan%2C%20P.%20Fogarty%2C%20P.%20Wood%2C%20J.%20Sampling%2C%20measurement%20and%20analytical%20protocols%20for%20carbon%20estimation%20in%20soil%2C%20litter%20and%20coarse%20woody%20debris.%20National%20Carbon%20Accounting%20System%202001) 

[^Moore_et+al_1973_a]: Moore, J.A., Budelski, C.A. & Schlesinger, R.C. (1973). A new index representing individual tree competitive status. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 3: 495-500. [[Moore_et+al_IndexRepresentingIndividualTreeCompetitive_1973]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moore%2C%20J.A.%20Budelski%2C%20C.A.%20Schlesinger%2C%20R.C.%20A%20new%20index%20representing%20individual%20tree%20competitive%20status%201973) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moore%2C%20J.A.%20Budelski%2C%20C.A.%20Schlesinger%2C%20R.C.%20A%20new%20index%20representing%20individual%20tree%20competitive%20status%201973) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moore%2C%20J.A.%20Budelski%2C%20C.A.%20Schlesinger%2C%20R.C.%20A%20new%20index%20representing%20individual%20tree%20competitive%20status%201973)

[^Mullette_1978_a]: Mullette, K.J. (1978). Studies of the lignotubers of Eucalyptus gummifera (Gaertn. & Hochr.). III. Inheritance and chemical composition. Australian Journal of Botany 26: 23-28. [[Mullette_StudiesLignotubersEucalyptusGummiferagaertn_1978]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mullette%2C%20K.J.%20Studies%20of%20the%20lignotubers%20of%20Eucalyptus%20gummifera%20%28Gaertn.%20%26%20Hochr.%29.%20III.%20Inheritance%20and%20chemical%20composition%201978) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mullette%2C%20K.J.%20Studies%20of%20the%20lignotubers%20of%20Eucalyptus%20gummifera%20%28Gaertn.%20%26%20Hochr.%29.%20III.%20Inheritance%20and%20chemical%20composition%201978) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mullette%2C%20K.J.%20Studies%20of%20the%20lignotubers%20of%20Eucalyptus%20gummifera%20%28Gaertn.%20%26%20Hochr.%29.%20III.%20Inheritance%20and%20chemical%20composition%201978)

[^Newbold_1967_a]: Newbold, P.J. (1967). Methods for estimating the primary production of forests. Blackwell Scientific Publications, Oxford and Edinburgh. 67p. [[Newbold_MethodsEstimatingPrimaryProductionForests_1967]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Newbold%2C%20P.J.%20Methods%20for%20estimating%20the%20primary%20production%20of%20forests%201967) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Newbold%2C%20P.J.%20Methods%20for%20estimating%20the%20primary%20production%20of%20forests%201967) 

[^O'Grady_et+al_2000_a]: O'Grady, A.P., Chen, A.X., Eamus, D. & Hutley, L.D. (2000). Composition, leaf area index and standing biomass of eucalypt open forests near Darwin in the Northern Territory, Australia. Australian Journal Botany 48: 629-638. [[O'Grady_et+al_CompositionLeafAreaIndexStanding_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=O%27Grady%2C%20A.P.%20Chen%2C%20A.X.%20Eamus%2C%20D.%20Hutley%2C%20L.D.%20Composition%2C%20leaf%20area%20index%20and%20standing%20biomass%20of%20eucalypt%20open%20forests%20near%20Darwin%20in%20the%20Northern%20Territory%2C%20Australia%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=O%27Grady%2C%20A.P.%20Chen%2C%20A.X.%20Eamus%2C%20D.%20Hutley%2C%20L.D.%20Composition%2C%20leaf%20area%20index%20and%20standing%20biomass%20of%20eucalypt%20open%20forests%20near%20Darwin%20in%20the%20Northern%20Territory%2C%20Australia%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=O%27Grady%2C%20A.P.%20Chen%2C%20A.X.%20Eamus%2C%20D.%20Hutley%2C%20L.D.%20Composition%2C%20leaf%20area%20index%20and%20standing%20biomass%20of%20eucalypt%20open%20forests%20near%20Darwin%20in%20the%20Northern%20Territory%2C%20Australia%202000)

[^Oliveira_et+al_2000_a]: Oliveira, M.R.G., van Noordwijk, M., Gaze, S.R., Brouwer, G., Bona, S., Mosca, G. & Hairiah, K. (2000). Auger sampling, ingrowth cores and pinboard methods. In Root Methods. A Handbook. (eds Smit AM et al.) pp. 175-210. (Springer-Verlag, Berlin). [[Oliveira_et+al_AugerSamplingIngrowthCoresPinboard_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Oliveira%2C%20M.R.G.%20van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Gaze%2C%20S.R.%20Brouwer%2C%20G.%20Auger%20sampling%2C%20ingrowth%20cores%20and%20pinboard%20methods%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Oliveira%2C%20M.R.G.%20van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Gaze%2C%20S.R.%20Brouwer%2C%20G.%20Auger%20sampling%2C%20ingrowth%20cores%20and%20pinboard%20methods%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Oliveira%2C%20M.R.G.%20van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Gaze%2C%20S.R.%20Brouwer%2C%20G.%20Auger%20sampling%2C%20ingrowth%20cores%20and%20pinboard%20methods%202000)

[^Pillsbury_1984_a]: Pillsbury, N.H. & Kirkley, M.L. (1984). Equations for total, wood, and saw-log volume for thirteen California hardwoods. USDA Forestry Service Research Note PNW-414, 52. [[Pillsbury_EquationsTotalWoodVolume_1984]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pillsbury%2C%20N.H.%20Kirkley%2C%20M.L.%20Equations%20for%20total%2C%20wood%2C%20and%20saw-log%20volume%20for%20thirteen%20California%20hardwoods%201984) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pillsbury%2C%20N.H.%20Kirkley%2C%20M.L.%20Equations%20for%20total%2C%20wood%2C%20and%20saw-log%20volume%20for%20thirteen%20California%20hardwoods%201984) 

[^Rayment_1992_a]: Rayment, G.E. & Higginson, F.R. (1992). Australian Laboratory Handbook of Soil and Water Chemical Methods, InkataPress, Melbourne. [[Rayment_AustralianLaboratoryHandbookSoilWater_1992]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rayment%2C%20G.E.%20Higginson%2C%20F.R.%20Australian%20Laboratory%20Handbook%20of%20Soil%20and%20Water%20Chemical%20Methods%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rayment%2C%20G.E.%20Higginson%2C%20F.R.%20Australian%20Laboratory%20Handbook%20of%20Soil%20and%20Water%20Chemical%20Methods%201992) 

[^Reuter_et+al_1997_a]: Reuter, D.J., Robinson, J.B., Peverill, K.I., Price, G.H. & Lambert, M.J. (1997). Guidelines for collecting, handling and analysing plant materials. In "Plant analysis: An interpretation manual" (D.J. Reuter and J.B. Robinson, eds.), CSIRO Publishing, Collingwood, pp. 53-70. [[Reuter_et+al_GuidelinesCollectingHandlingAnalysingPlant_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Reuter%2C%20D.J.%20Robinson%2C%20J.B.%20Peverill%2C%20K.I.%20Price%2C%20G.H.%20Guidelines%20for%20collecting%2C%20handling%20and%20analysing%20plant%20materials.%20In%20%22Plant%20analysis%3A%20An%20interpretation%20manual%22%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Reuter%2C%20D.J.%20Robinson%2C%20J.B.%20Peverill%2C%20K.I.%20Price%2C%20G.H.%20Guidelines%20for%20collecting%2C%20handling%20and%20analysing%20plant%20materials.%20In%20%22Plant%20analysis%3A%20An%20interpretation%20manual%22%201997) 

[^Schreuder_et+al_1993_a]: Schreuder, H.T., Gregoire, T.G. & Wood, G.B. (1993). Sampling Methods for Multiresource Forest Inventory. (John Wiley & Sons, New York). 446 p. [[Schreuder_et+al_SamplingMethodsMultiresourceForestInventory_1993]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schreuder%2C%20H.T.%20Gregoire%2C%20T.G.%20Wood%2C%20G.B.%20Sampling%20Methods%20for%20Multiresource%20Forest%20Inventory%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schreuder%2C%20H.T.%20Gregoire%2C%20T.G.%20Wood%2C%20G.B.%20Sampling%20Methods%20for%20Multiresource%20Forest%20Inventory%201993) 

[^Schuurman_1971_a]: Schuurman, J.J. & Goedewaagen, M.A.J. (1971). Methods for the Examination of Root Systems and Roots. Centre for Agric. Pub Doc, Wageningen, The Netherlands. [[Schuurman_MethodsExaminationRootSystemsRoots_1971]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schuurman%2C%20J.J.%20Goedewaagen%2C%20M.A.J.%20Methods%20for%20the%20Examination%20of%20Root%20Systems%20and%20Roots%201971) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schuurman%2C%20J.J.%20Goedewaagen%2C%20M.A.J.%20Methods%20for%20the%20Examination%20of%20Root%20Systems%20and%20Roots%201971) 

[^Shiver_1996_a]: Shiver, B.D. & Borders, B.E. (1996). Sampling Techniques for Forest Resource Inventory. (John Wiley & Sons, New York). 356 p. [[Shiver_SamplingTechniquesForestResourceInventory_1996]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shiver%2C%20B.D.%20Borders%2C%20B.E.%20Sampling%20Techniques%20for%20Forest%20Resource%20Inventory%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shiver%2C%20B.D.%20Borders%2C%20B.E.%20Sampling%20Techniques%20for%20Forest%20Resource%20Inventory%201996) 

[^Smit_et+al_2000_a]: Smit, A.L., Bengough, A.G., Engels, C., van Noordwijk, M., Pellerin, S. & van de Geijn, S.C. (eds) (2000). Root Methods. A Handbook. SpringerVerlag, Berlin 587 p. [[Smit_et+al_RootMethodsAHandbook_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smit%2C%20A.L.%20Bengough%2C%20A.G.%20Engels%2C%20C.%20van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Root%20Methods.%20A%20Handbook%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smit%2C%20A.L.%20Bengough%2C%20A.G.%20Engels%2C%20C.%20van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Root%20Methods.%20A%20Handbook%202000) 

[^Snowdon_1985_a]: Snowdon, P. (1985). Effects of fertilizer and family on the homogeneity of biomass regressions for young Pinus radiata. Australian Forest Research 5: 135-140. [[Snowdon_EffectsFertilizerFamilyHomogeneityBiomass_1985]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20Effects%20of%20fertilizer%20and%20family%20on%20the%20homogeneity%20of%20biomass%20regressions%20for%20young%20Pinus%20radiata%201985) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20Effects%20of%20fertilizer%20and%20family%20on%20the%20homogeneity%20of%20biomass%20regressions%20for%20young%20Pinus%20radiata%201985) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20Effects%20of%20fertilizer%20and%20family%20on%20the%20homogeneity%20of%20biomass%20regressions%20for%20young%20Pinus%20radiata%201985)

[^Snowdon_1986_a]: Snowdon, P. (1986). Sampling strategies and methods of estimating the biomass of crown components in individual trees of Pinus radiata D. Don. Aust. For. Res. 16: 63-72. [[Snowdon_SamplingStrategiesMethodsEstimatingBiomass_1986]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20Sampling%20strategies%20and%20methods%20of%20estimating%20the%20biomass%20of%20crown%20components%20in%20individual%20trees%20of%20Pinus%20radiata%20D%201986) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20Sampling%20strategies%20and%20methods%20of%20estimating%20the%20biomass%20of%20crown%20components%20in%20individual%20trees%20of%20Pinus%20radiata%20D%201986) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20Sampling%20strategies%20and%20methods%20of%20estimating%20the%20biomass%20of%20crown%20components%20in%20individual%20trees%20of%20Pinus%20radiata%20D%201986)

[^Snowdon_1991_a]: Snowdon, P. (1991). A ratio estimator for bias correction in logarithmic regressions. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 21: 720-724. [[Snowdon_RatioEstimatorBiasCorrectionLogarithmic_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20A%20ratio%20estimator%20for%20bias%20correction%20in%20logarithmic%20regressions%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20A%20ratio%20estimator%20for%20bias%20correction%20in%20logarithmic%20regressions%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20A%20ratio%20estimator%20for%20bias%20correction%20in%20logarithmic%20regressions%201991)

[^Snowdon_1992_a]: Snowdon, P. (1992). Ratio methods for estimating forest biomass. New Zealand Journal of Forestry Science. 22: 54-62. [[Snowdon_RatioMethodsEstimatingForestBiomass_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20Ratio%20methods%20for%20estimating%20forest%20biomass%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20Ratio%20methods%20for%20estimating%20forest%20biomass%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20Ratio%20methods%20for%20estimating%20forest%20biomass%201992)

[^Snowdon_et+al_2001_a]: Snowdon, P., Eamus, D., Gibbons, P., Khanna, P.K., Keith, H., Raison, R.J. & Kirschbaum, M.U.F. (2001). Synthesis of allometrics, review of root biomass, and design of future woody biomass sampling strategies. National Carbon Accounting System, Technical Report No. 17, Australian Greenhouse office, Canberra, 114 p. [[Snowdon_et+al_SynthesisAllometricsReviewRootBiomass_2001]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20Eamus%2C%20D.%20Gibbons%2C%20P.%20Khanna%2C%20P.K.%20Synthesis%20of%20allometrics%2C%20review%20of%20root%20biomass%2C%20and%20design%20of%20future%20woody%20biomass%20sampling%20strategies.%20National%20Carbon%20Accounting%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Snowdon%2C%20P.%20Eamus%2C%20D.%20Gibbons%2C%20P.%20Khanna%2C%20P.K.%20Synthesis%20of%20allometrics%2C%20review%20of%20root%20biomass%2C%20and%20design%20of%20future%20woody%20biomass%20sampling%20strategies.%20National%20Carbon%20Accounting%202001) 

[^Spek_1994_a]: Spek, L.Y. & van Noordwijk, M. (1994). Proximal root diameters as predictors of total root system size for fractal branching models. [[Spek_ProximalRootDiametersPredictorsTotal_1994]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Spek%2C%20L.Y.%20van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Proximal%20root%20diameters%20as%20predictors%20of%20total%20root%20system%20size%20for%20fractal%20branching%20models%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Spek%2C%20L.Y.%20van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Proximal%20root%20diameters%20as%20predictors%20of%20total%20root%20system%20size%20for%20fractal%20branching%20models%201994) 

[^2]: Numerical model. Plant and Soil 164: 119-127. [[Numerical_NumericalModelPlantSoil164_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Numerical%20model%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20164%20119127) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Numerical%20model%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20164%20119127) 

[^Spencer_1997_a]: Spencer, R.D. & Czaplewski, R.L. (1997) National forest inventory in the U.S.A.: An outline of the procedure. Australian Forestry 60: 56-66. [[Spencer_NationalForestInventoryUS_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Spencer%2C%20R.D.%20Czaplewski%2C%20R.L.%20National%20forest%20inventory%20in%20the%20U.%20S.%20A.%3A%20An%20outline%20of%20the%20procedure%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Spencer%2C%20R.D.%20Czaplewski%2C%20R.L.%20National%20forest%20inventory%20in%20the%20U.%20S.%20A.%3A%20An%20outline%20of%20the%20procedure%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Spencer%2C%20R.D.%20Czaplewski%2C%20R.L.%20National%20forest%20inventory%20in%20the%20U.%20S.%20A.%3A%20An%20outline%20of%20the%20procedure%201997)

[^Telewski_1991_a]: Telewski, F.W. & Lynch, A.M. (1991). Measuring growth and development of stems. In Techniques and approaches in forest tree ecophysiology. (eds, Lassoie, J. P. & Hinckey, T. H.). CRC Press, Inc Florida. [[Telewski_MeasuringGrowthDevelopmentStemsIn_1991]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Telewski%2C%20F.W.%20Lynch%2C%20A.M.%20Measuring%20growth%20and%20development%20of%20stems.%20In%20Techniques%20and%20approaches%20in%20forest%20tree%20ecophysiology%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Telewski%2C%20F.W.%20Lynch%2C%20A.M.%20Measuring%20growth%20and%20development%20of%20stems.%20In%20Techniques%20and%20approaches%20in%20forest%20tree%20ecophysiology%201991) 

[^Turvey_1987_a]: Turvey, N.D. (ed.) (1987). A Technical Classification of Soils of Pinus Plantations in Australia: A Field Manual. University of Melbournne, School of Forestry, Bulletin No. 6. 42 p. [[Turvey_TechnicalClassificationSoilsPinusPlantations_1987]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Turvey%2C%20N.D.%20A%20Technical%20Classification%20of%20Soils%20of%20Pinus%20Plantations%20in%20Australia%3A%20A%20Field%20Manual%201987) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Turvey%2C%20N.D.%20A%20Technical%20Classification%20of%20Soils%20of%20Pinus%20Plantations%20in%20Australia%3A%20A%20Field%20Manual%201987) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Turvey%2C%20N.D.%20A%20Technical%20Classification%20of%20Soils%20of%20Pinus%20Plantations%20in%20Australia%3A%20A%20Field%20Manual%201987)

[^Valentine_et+al_1984_a]: Valentine, H.T., Tritton, L.M. & Furnival, G.M. (1984). Subsampling trees for biomass, volume or mineral content. Forest Science 30: 673-681. [[Valentine_et+al_SubsamplingTreesBiomassVolumeMineral_1984]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Valentine%2C%20H.T.%20Tritton%2C%20L.M.%20Furnival%2C%20G.M.%20Subsampling%20trees%20for%20biomass%2C%20volume%20or%20mineral%20content%201984) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Valentine%2C%20H.T.%20Tritton%2C%20L.M.%20Furnival%2C%20G.M.%20Subsampling%20trees%20for%20biomass%2C%20volume%20or%20mineral%20content%201984) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Valentine%2C%20H.T.%20Tritton%2C%20L.M.%20Furnival%2C%20G.M.%20Subsampling%20trees%20for%20biomass%2C%20volume%20or%20mineral%20content%201984)

[^van_Noordwijk_et+al_1991_a]: van Noordwijk, M., Hairiah, K., Syekhfani, M. & Flach, B. (1991) Peltophorum pterocarpa - a tree with a root distribution suitable for alley cropping. In Persson, H. & McMichael, B.L. (eds). Plant Roots and their Environment. Elsevier, Amsterdam, pp. 526-532. [[van_Noordwijk_et+al_PeltophorumPterocarpaTreeWith_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Hairiah%2C%20K.%20Syekhfani%2C%20M.%20Flach%2C%20B.%20Peltophorum%20pterocarpa%20-%20a%20tree%20with%20a%20root%20distribution%20suitable%20for%20alley%20cropping%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Hairiah%2C%20K.%20Syekhfani%2C%20M.%20Flach%2C%20B.%20Peltophorum%20pterocarpa%20-%20a%20tree%20with%20a%20root%20distribution%20suitable%20for%20alley%20cropping%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Hairiah%2C%20K.%20Syekhfani%2C%20M.%20Flach%2C%20B.%20Peltophorum%20pterocarpa%20-%20a%20tree%20with%20a%20root%20distribution%20suitable%20for%20alley%20cropping%201991)

[^van_Noordwijk_et+al_1996_a]: van Noordwijk, M., Lawson, G., Soumaré, A., Groot, J.J.R. & Hairiah, K. (1996). Root distribution of trees and crops: competition and/or complementarity. In TreeCrop Interactions. A Physiological Approach. (Eds. Ong CK and Huxley P) (CAB International, Cambridge), pp. 319-364. [[van_Noordwijk_et+al_RootDistributionTreesCropsCompetition_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Lawson%2C%20G.%20Soumar%C3%A9%2C%20A.%20Groot%2C%20J.J.R.%20Root%20distribution%20of%20trees%20and%20crops%3A%20competition%20and/or%20complementarity.%20In%20TreeCrop%20Interactions.%20A%20Physiological%20Approach%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Lawson%2C%20G.%20Soumar%C3%A9%2C%20A.%20Groot%2C%20J.J.R.%20Root%20distribution%20of%20trees%20and%20crops%3A%20competition%20and/or%20complementarity.%20In%20TreeCrop%20Interactions.%20A%20Physiological%20Approach%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Lawson%2C%20G.%20Soumar%C3%A9%2C%20A.%20Groot%2C%20J.J.R.%20Root%20distribution%20of%20trees%20and%20crops%3A%20competition%20and/or%20complementarity.%20In%20TreeCrop%20Interactions.%20A%20Physiological%20Approach%201996)

[^van_Noordwijk_et+al_1994_a]: van Noordwijk,M., Spek, L.Y. & de Willigen, P. (1994). Proximal root diameters as predictors of total root system size for fractal branching models. [[van_Noordwijk_et+al_ProximalRootDiametersPredictorsTotal_1994]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Spek%2C%20L.Y.%20de%20Willigen%2C%20P.%20Proximal%20root%20diameters%20as%20predictors%20of%20total%20root%20system%20size%20for%20fractal%20branching%20models%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=van%20Noordwijk%2C%20M.%20Spek%2C%20L.Y.%20de%20Willigen%2C%20P.%20Proximal%20root%20diameters%20as%20predictors%20of%20total%20root%20system%20size%20for%20fractal%20branching%20models%201994) 

[^Wellington_et+al_1979_a]: Wellington, A.B., Polach, H.A. & Noble, I.R. (1979). Radiocarbon dating of lignotubers from mallee forms of Eucalyptus. Search 10: 282-283. [[Wellington_et+al_RadiocarbonDatingLignotubersFromMallee_1979]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wellington%2C%20A.B.%20Polach%2C%20H.A.%20Noble%2C%20I.R.%20Radiocarbon%20dating%20of%20lignotubers%20from%20mallee%20forms%20of%20Eucalyptus%201979) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wellington%2C%20A.B.%20Polach%2C%20H.A.%20Noble%2C%20I.R.%20Radiocarbon%20dating%20of%20lignotubers%20from%20mallee%20forms%20of%20Eucalyptus%201979) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wellington%2C%20A.B.%20Polach%2C%20H.A.%20Noble%2C%20I.R.%20Radiocarbon%20dating%20of%20lignotubers%20from%20mallee%20forms%20of%20Eucalyptus%201979)

[^Wood_et+al_1990_a]: Wood, G.B., Wiant, H.V., Loy, R.J. & Miles, J.A. (1990). Centroid sampling: a variant of importance sampling for estimating the volume of sample trees of radiata pine. Forest Ecology and Management 36: 233-243. [[Wood_et+al_CentroidSamplingVariantImportanceSampling_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wood%2C%20G.B.%20Wiant%2C%20H.V.%20Loy%2C%20R.J.%20Miles%2C%20J.A.%20Centroid%20sampling%3A%20a%20variant%20of%20importance%20sampling%20for%20estimating%20the%20volume%20of%20sample%20trees%20of%20radiata%20pine%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wood%2C%20G.B.%20Wiant%2C%20H.V.%20Loy%2C%20R.J.%20Miles%2C%20J.A.%20Centroid%20sampling%3A%20a%20variant%20of%20importance%20sampling%20for%20estimating%20the%20volume%20of%20sample%20trees%20of%20radiata%20pine%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wood%2C%20G.B.%20Wiant%2C%20H.V.%20Loy%2C%20R.J.%20Miles%2C%20J.A.%20Centroid%20sampling%3A%20a%20variant%20of%20importance%20sampling%20for%20estimating%20the%20volume%20of%20sample%20trees%20of%20radiata%20pine%201990)

[^Wood_et+al_1999_a]: Wood, G.B., Turner, B.J. & Brack, C.L. (eds.) (1999). Code of Forest Mensuration Practice: A Guide to Good Tree Measurement Practice in Australia and New Zealand. (Research Working Group #2 (Forest Measurement and Information), Standing Committee on Forestry). http://www.anu.edu.au/ Forestry/staff/index_frame.html. [[Wood_et+al_CodeForestMensurationPracticeGuide_1999]] [OA](http://www.anu.edu.au/Forestry/staff/index_frame.html)  

[^5]: Select sample trees and shrubs, for detailed measurements as described below. [[Select_SelectSampleTreesShrubsDetailed_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Select%20sample%20trees%20and%20shrubs%20for%20detailed%20measurements%20as%20described%20below) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Select%20sample%20trees%20and%20shrubs%20for%20detailed%20measurements%20as%20described%20below) 

[^Select_1992_a]: A variety of methods are available for estimating biomass of shrubs and understory components in woody ecosystems (Catchpole and Wheeler 1992). Methods include: [[Select_VarietyMethodsAvailableEstimatingBiomass_1992]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A%20variety%20of%20methods%20are%20available%20for%20estimating%20biomass%20of%20shrubs%20and%20understory%20components%20in%20woody%20ecosystems%20Catchpole%20and%20Wheeler%201992%20Methods%20include) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A%20variety%20of%20methods%20are%20available%20for%20estimating%20biomass%20of%20shrubs%20and%20understory%20components%20in%20woody%20ecosystems%20Catchpole%20and%20Wheeler%201992%20Methods%20include) 

[^Fortunately_1997_a]: Fortunately, the total and component masses of a great many irregularly shaped shrub species does not depart greatly from that which can be predicted on the basis of simple measurements of diameter or cover (see also Brown 1997). Usefully, quite a range of different species from a single genus or related genera may fit a single predictive model. In light of the above discussion, this generalization holds best for relatively short-lived shrub species that have not been substantially affected by fire, drought etc. [[Fortunately_TotalComponentMassesGreatMany_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fortunately%20the%20total%20and%20component%20masses%20of%20a%20great%20many%20irregularly%20shaped%20shrub%20species%20does%20not%20depart%20greatly%20from%20that%20which%20can%20be%20predicted%20on%20the%20basis%20of%20simple%20measurements%20of%20diameter%20or%20cover%20see%20also%20Brown%201997%20Usefully%20quite%20a%20range%20of%20different%20species%20from%20a%20single%20genus%20or%20related%20genera%20may%20fit%20a%20single%20predictive%20model%20In%20light%20of%20the%20above%20discussion%20this%20generalization%20holds%20best%20for%20relatively%20shortlived%20shrub%20species%20that%20have%20not%20been%20substantially%20affected%20by%20fire%20drought%20etc) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fortunately%20the%20total%20and%20component%20masses%20of%20a%20great%20many%20irregularly%20shaped%20shrub%20species%20does%20not%20depart%20greatly%20from%20that%20which%20can%20be%20predicted%20on%20the%20basis%20of%20simple%20measurements%20of%20diameter%20or%20cover%20see%20also%20Brown%201997%20Usefully%20quite%20a%20range%20of%20different%20species%20from%20a%20single%20genus%20or%20related%20genera%20may%20fit%20a%20single%20predictive%20model%20In%20light%20of%20the%20above%20discussion%20this%20generalization%20holds%20best%20for%20relatively%20shortlived%20shrub%20species%20that%20have%20not%20been%20substantially%20affected%20by%20fire%20drought%20etc) 

[^4]: Sub-sample leaf biomass to estimate leaf area and LAI. [[Sub-sample_sampleLeafBiomassEstimateLeaf_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Subsample%20leaf%20biomass%20to%20estimate%20leaf%20area%20and%20LAI) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Subsample%20leaf%20biomass%20to%20estimate%20leaf%20area%20and%20LAI) 

[^The_1984_a]: The more straightforward issue of irregular form has been dealt with previously (eg. Valentine et al. 1984) and we suggest de Gier (1989); de Gier and Sakouhi (1996) provide excellent descriptions of path selection, and an importance sampling approach (see also Section 2.4). The method does not provide estimates of leaf mass or area and so will be unsuited to some purposes although a combination of this and the methods outlined below may allow reasonable estimates of leaf mass and area to be obtained using regression analysis. Critically for remote locations, the path selection approach is very efficient in time usage: average time per tree is only about thirty four minutes for a crew of two (De Gier and Sakouhi 1996), only increasing slightly with increasing DBH, resulting in on-the-spot estimates of volume and fresh weight. Furthermore, the approach needs little more than a power saw, a balance and a portable computer for making calculations in the field. [[The_MoreStraightforwardIssueIrregularForm_1984]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=The%20more%20straightforward%20issue%20of%20irregular%20form%20has%20been%20dealt%20with%20previously%20eg%20Valentine%20et%20al%201984%20and%20we%20suggest%20de%20Gier%201989%20de%20Gier%20and%20Sakouhi%201996%20provide%20excellent%20descriptions%20of%20path%20selection%20and%20an%20importance%20sampling%20approach%20see%20also%20Section%2024%20The%20method%20does%20not%20provide%20estimates%20of%20leaf%20mass%20or%20area%20and%20so%20will%20be%20unsuited%20to%20some%20purposes%20although%20a%20combination%20of%20this%20and%20the%20methods%20outlined%20below%20may%20allow%20reasonable%20estimates%20of%20leaf%20mass%20and%20area%20to%20be%20obtained%20using%20regression%20analysis%20Critically%20for%20remote%20locations%20the%20path%20selection%20approach%20is%20very%20efficient%20in%20time%20usage%20average%20time%20per%20tree%20is%20only%20about%20thirty%20four%20minutes%20for%20a%20crew%20of%20two%20De%20Gier%20and%20Sakouhi%201996%20only%20increasing%20slightly%20with%20increasing%20DBH%20resulting%20in%20onthespot%20estimates%20of%20volume%20and%20fresh%20weight%20Furthermore%20the%20approach%20needs%20little%20more%20than%20a%20power%20saw%20a%20balance%20and%20a%20portable%20computer%20for%20making%20calculations%20in%20the%20field) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=The%20more%20straightforward%20issue%20of%20irregular%20form%20has%20been%20dealt%20with%20previously%20eg%20Valentine%20et%20al%201984%20and%20we%20suggest%20de%20Gier%201989%20de%20Gier%20and%20Sakouhi%201996%20provide%20excellent%20descriptions%20of%20path%20selection%20and%20an%20importance%20sampling%20approach%20see%20also%20Section%2024%20The%20method%20does%20not%20provide%20estimates%20of%20leaf%20mass%20or%20area%20and%20so%20will%20be%20unsuited%20to%20some%20purposes%20although%20a%20combination%20of%20this%20and%20the%20methods%20outlined%20below%20may%20allow%20reasonable%20estimates%20of%20leaf%20mass%20and%20area%20to%20be%20obtained%20using%20regression%20analysis%20Critically%20for%20remote%20locations%20the%20path%20selection%20approach%20is%20very%20efficient%20in%20time%20usage%20average%20time%20per%20tree%20is%20only%20about%20thirty%20four%20minutes%20for%20a%20crew%20of%20two%20De%20Gier%20and%20Sakouhi%201996%20only%20increasing%20slightly%20with%20increasing%20DBH%20resulting%20in%20onthespot%20estimates%20of%20volume%20and%20fresh%20weight%20Furthermore%20the%20approach%20needs%20little%20more%20than%20a%20power%20saw%20a%20balance%20and%20a%20portable%20computer%20for%20making%20calculations%20in%20the%20field) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=The%20more%20straightforward%20issue%20of%20irregular%20form%20has%20been%20dealt%20with%20previously%20eg%20Valentine%20et%20al%201984%20and%20we%20suggest%20de%20Gier%201989%20de%20Gier%20and%20Sakouhi%201996%20provide%20excellent%20descriptions%20of%20path%20selection%20and%20an%20importance%20sampling%20approach%20see%20also%20Section%2024%20The%20method%20does%20not%20provide%20estimates%20of%20leaf%20mass%20or%20area%20and%20so%20will%20be%20unsuited%20to%20some%20purposes%20although%20a%20combination%20of%20this%20and%20the%20methods%20outlined%20below%20may%20allow%20reasonable%20estimates%20of%20leaf%20mass%20and%20area%20to%20be%20obtained%20using%20regression%20analysis%20Critically%20for%20remote%20locations%20the%20path%20selection%20approach%20is%20very%20efficient%20in%20time%20usage%20average%20time%20per%20tree%20is%20only%20about%20thirty%20four%20minutes%20for%20a%20crew%20of%20two%20De%20Gier%20and%20Sakouhi%201996%20only%20increasing%20slightly%20with%20increasing%20DBH%20resulting%20in%20onthespot%20estimates%20of%20volume%20and%20fresh%20weight%20Furthermore%20the%20approach%20needs%20little%20more%20than%20a%20power%20saw%20a%20balance%20and%20a%20portable%20computer%20for%20making%20calculations%20in%20the%20field)

[^6]: Sub-sample leaves to estimate dry weight and to calculate total leaf area (and LAI) [[Sub-sample_sampleLeavesEstimateWeightCalculate_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Subsample%20leaves%20to%20estimate%20dry%20weight%20and%20to%20calculate%20total%20leaf%20area%20and%20LAI) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Subsample%20leaves%20to%20estimate%20dry%20weight%20and%20to%20calculate%20total%20leaf%20area%20and%20LAI) 

[^8]: Sub-sample leaves to estimate dry weight and to calculate total leaf area (and LAI). [[Sub-sample_sampleLeavesEstimateWeightCalculate_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Subsample%20leaves%20to%20estimate%20dry%20weight%20and%20to%20calculate%20total%20leaf%20area%20and%20LAI) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Subsample%20leaves%20to%20estimate%20dry%20weight%20and%20to%20calculate%20total%20leaf%20area%20and%20LAI) 

[^9]: Sub-sample leaves to estimate dry weight and to calculate total leaf area (and LAI). [[Sub-sample_sampleLeavesEstimateWeightCalculate_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Subsample%20leaves%20to%20estimate%20dry%20weight%20and%20to%20calculate%20total%20leaf%20area%20and%20LAI) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Subsample%20leaves%20to%20estimate%20dry%20weight%20and%20to%20calculate%20total%20leaf%20area%20and%20LAI) 

[^1]: Draw sketch of tree, illustrating branching pattern (see Figure 4.3); and [[Draw_DrawSketchTreeIllustratingBranching_0000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Draw%20sketch%20of%20tree%20illustrating%20branching%20pattern%20see%20Figure%2043%20and) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Draw%20sketch%20of%20tree%20illustrating%20branching%20pattern%20see%20Figure%2043%20and) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Draw%20sketch%20of%20tree%20illustrating%20branching%20pattern%20see%20Figure%2043%20and)

[^2]: Record tree height, crown dimensions (including depth), height to crown break (if applicable). Number the branches and record, for each branch, the length with wood, i.e. until where the branch divides/ branches again [[Record_RecordTreeHeightCrownDimensions_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Record%20tree%20height%20crown%20dimensions%20including%20depth%20height%20to%20crown%20break%20if%20applicable%20Number%20the%20branches%20and%20record%20for%20each%20branch%20the%20length%20with%20wood%20ie%20until%20where%20the%20branch%20divides%20branches%20again) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Record%20tree%20height%20crown%20dimensions%20including%20depth%20height%20to%20crown%20break%20if%20applicable%20Number%20the%20branches%20and%20record%20for%20each%20branch%20the%20length%20with%20wood%20ie%20until%20where%20the%20branch%20divides%20branches%20again) 

[^3]: For the wood component of each branch (i.e. the section for which length was measured in 2. above), measure the diameter at 0.5, 1.0, 1.3 m and so on, avoiding measurements at bulges around sub-branches. Remember to measures diameter immediately below and above each node; and [[For_WoodComponentEachBranch_0000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=For%20the%20wood%20component%20of%20each%20branch%20ie%20the%20section%20for%20which%20length%20was%20measured%20in%202%20above%20measure%20the%20diameter%20at%2005%2010%2013%20m%20and%20so%20on%20avoiding%20measurements%20at%20bulges%20around%20subbranches%20Remember%20to%20measures%20diameter%20immediately%20below%20and%20above%20each%20node%20and) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=For%20the%20wood%20component%20of%20each%20branch%20ie%20the%20section%20for%20which%20length%20was%20measured%20in%202%20above%20measure%20the%20diameter%20at%2005%2010%2013%20m%20and%20so%20on%20avoiding%20measurements%20at%20bulges%20around%20subbranches%20Remember%20to%20measures%20diameter%20immediately%20below%20and%20above%20each%20node%20and) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=For%20the%20wood%20component%20of%20each%20branch%20ie%20the%20section%20for%20which%20length%20was%20measured%20in%202%20above%20measure%20the%20diameter%20at%2005%2010%2013%20m%20and%20so%20on%20avoiding%20measurements%20at%20bulges%20around%20subbranches%20Remember%20to%20measures%20diameter%20immediately%20below%20and%20above%20each%20node%20and)

[^4]: For each main branch (at 2. above), count the number of sub-branches and record their basal diameters (again, avoiding measurements around "bulging"). [[For_EachMainBranch2_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=For%20each%20main%20branch%20at%202%20above%20count%20the%20number%20of%20subbranches%20and%20record%20their%20basal%20diameters%20again%20avoiding%20measurements%20around%20bulging) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=For%20each%20main%20branch%20at%202%20above%20count%20the%20number%20of%20subbranches%20and%20record%20their%20basal%20diameters%20again%20avoiding%20measurements%20around%20bulging) 

[^8]: Ignore dead branches other than ensuring measurements of diameter immediately below and above their point of insertion (see above). [[Ignore_IgnoreDeadBranchesOtherThan_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ignore%20dead%20branches%20other%20than%20ensuring%20measurements%20of%20diameter%20immediately%20below%20and%20above%20their%20point%20of%20insertion%20see%20above) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ignore%20dead%20branches%20other%20than%20ensuring%20measurements%20of%20diameter%20immediately%20below%20and%20above%20their%20point%20of%20insertion%20see%20above) 

[^1]: Carefully excavate the first part of the lateral roots at the stem base and where they arise from the root crown; 2. Measure the basal diameters of all first order laterals and second order laterals > 0.5 cm. For every first order lateral, measurements of root diameter at regular intervals (5, 10, 20, 50 cm, depending on root length) to determine taper functions for individual roots; 3. Classify each of the lateral roots by their angle of orientation to the soil surface (the horizontal plane); and [[Carefully_CarefullyExcavateFirstPartLateral_10,]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Carefully%20excavate%20the%20first%20part%20of%20the%20lateral%20roots%20at%20the%20stem%20base%20and%20where%20they%20arise%20from%20the%20root%20crown%202%20Measure%20the%20basal%20diameters%20of%20all%20first%20order%20laterals%20and%20second%20order%20laterals%20%2005%20cm%20For%20every%20first%20order%20lateral%20measurements%20of%20root%20diameter%20at%20regular%20intervals%205%2010%2020%2050%20cm%20depending%20on%20root%20length%20to%20determine%20taper%20functions%20for%20individual%20roots%203%20Classify%20each%20of%20the%20lateral%20roots%20by%20their%20angle%20of%20orientation%20to%20the%20soil%20surface%20the%20horizontal%20plane%20and) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Carefully%20excavate%20the%20first%20part%20of%20the%20lateral%20roots%20at%20the%20stem%20base%20and%20where%20they%20arise%20from%20the%20root%20crown%202%20Measure%20the%20basal%20diameters%20of%20all%20first%20order%20laterals%20and%20second%20order%20laterals%20%2005%20cm%20For%20every%20first%20order%20lateral%20measurements%20of%20root%20diameter%20at%20regular%20intervals%205%2010%2020%2050%20cm%20depending%20on%20root%20length%20to%20determine%20taper%20functions%20for%20individual%20roots%203%20Classify%20each%20of%20the%20lateral%20roots%20by%20their%20angle%20of%20orientation%20to%20the%20soil%20surface%20the%20horizontal%20plane%20and) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Carefully%20excavate%20the%20first%20part%20of%20the%20lateral%20roots%20at%20the%20stem%20base%20and%20where%20they%20arise%20from%20the%20root%20crown%202%20Measure%20the%20basal%20diameters%20of%20all%20first%20order%20laterals%20and%20second%20order%20laterals%20%2005%20cm%20For%20every%20first%20order%20lateral%20measurements%20of%20root%20diameter%20at%20regular%20intervals%205%2010%2020%2050%20cm%20depending%20on%20root%20length%20to%20determine%20taper%20functions%20for%20individual%20roots%203%20Classify%20each%20of%20the%20lateral%20roots%20by%20their%20angle%20of%20orientation%20to%20the%20soil%20surface%20the%20horizontal%20plane%20and)

[^4]: Calculate the sum of the root diameter squares for roots with a horizontal orientation (angle with the horizontal less than 45o) [[Calculate_CalculateRootDiameterSquaresRoots_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Calculate%20the%20sum%20of%20the%20root%20diameter%20squares%20for%20roots%20with%20a%20horizontal%20orientation%20angle%20with%20the%20horizontal%20less%20than%2045o) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Calculate%20the%20sum%20of%20the%20root%20diameter%20squares%20for%20roots%20with%20a%20horizontal%20orientation%20angle%20with%20the%20horizontal%20less%20than%2045o) 

[^1]: Expose parts of the branching system by tracing roots from the root crown or taproot. For each branching point where both the previous and subsequent links have been exposed, measure the diameter of each link (halfway from the link or 5 cm from the previous branching point, outside the thickened area around the branching junction). [[Expose_ExposePartsBranchingSystemTracing_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Expose%20parts%20of%20the%20branching%20system%20by%20tracing%20roots%20from%20the%20root%20crown%20or%20taproot%20For%20each%20branching%20point%20where%20both%20the%20previous%20and%20subsequent%20links%20have%20been%20exposed%20measure%20the%20diameter%20of%20each%20link%20halfway%20from%20the%20link%20or%205%20cm%20from%20the%20previous%20branching%20point%20outside%20the%20thickened%20area%20around%20the%20branching%20junction) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Expose%20parts%20of%20the%20branching%20system%20by%20tracing%20roots%20from%20the%20root%20crown%20or%20taproot%20For%20each%20branching%20point%20where%20both%20the%20previous%20and%20subsequent%20links%20have%20been%20exposed%20measure%20the%20diameter%20of%20each%20link%20halfway%20from%20the%20link%20or%205%20cm%20from%20the%20previous%20branching%20point%20outside%20the%20thickened%20area%20around%20the%20branching%20junction) 

[^28]: The FullCAM Carbon Accounting Model: Development, Calibration and Implementation for the National Carbon Accounting System. [[The_FullcamCarbonAccountingModelDevelopment_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=The%20FullCAM%20Carbon%20Accounting%20Model%20Development%20Calibration%20and%20Implementation%20for%20the%20National%20Carbon%20Accounting%20System) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=The%20FullCAM%20Carbon%20Accounting%20Model%20Development%20Calibration%20and%20Implementation%20for%20the%20National%20Carbon%20Accounting%20System) 

[^29]: Modelling Change in Soil Carbon Following Afforestation or Reforestation: Preliminary Simulations Using GRC3 and Sensitivity Analysis. [[Modelling_ModellingChangeSoilCarbonFollowing_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Modelling%20Change%20in%20Soil%20Carbon%20Following%20Afforestation%20or%20Reforestation%20Preliminary%20Simulations%20Using%20GRC3%20and%20Sensitivity%20Analysis) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Modelling%20Change%20in%20Soil%20Carbon%20Following%20Afforestation%20or%20Reforestation%20Preliminary%20Simulations%20Using%20GRC3%20and%20Sensitivity%20Analysis) 

[^30]: Sensitivity Analysis of the Roth-C Carbon Model (Ver. 26.3 Excel” version). [[Sensitivity_SensitivityAnalysisRothcCarbonModel_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sensitivity%20Analysis%20of%20the%20RothC%20Carbon%20Model%20Ver%20263%20Excel%20version) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sensitivity%20Analysis%20of%20the%20RothC%20Carbon%20Model%20Ver%20263%20Excel%20version) 

[^31]: Protocol for Sampling Tree and Stand Biomass. [[Protocol_ProtocolSamplingTreeStandBiomass_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Protocol%20for%20Sampling%20Tree%20and%20Stand%20Biomass) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Protocol%20for%20Sampling%20Tree%20and%20Stand%20Biomass) 

[^32]: Forest Management in Australia: Implications for Carbon Budgets. [[Forest_ForestManagementAustraliaImplicationsCarbon_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Forest%20Management%20in%20Australia%20Implications%20for%20Carbon%20Budgets) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Forest%20Management%20in%20Australia%20Implications%20for%20Carbon%20Budgets) 

[^33]: Allometric Relationships and Community Biomass Stocks in White Cypress Pine (Callitris glaucophylla) and Associated Eucalypts of the Carnarvon Area - South Central Queensland (with Additional Data for Scrub Leopardwood - Flindersia dissosperma). [[Allometric_AllometricRelationshipsCommunityBiomassStocks_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Allometric%20Relationships%20and%20Community%20Biomass%20Stocks%20in%20White%20Cypress%20Pine%20Callitris%20glaucophylla%20and%20Associated%20Eucalypts%20of%20the%20Carnarvon%20Area%20%20South%20Central%20Queensland%20with%20Additional%20Data%20for%20Scrub%20Leopardwood%20%20Flindersia%20dissosperma) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Allometric%20Relationships%20and%20Community%20Biomass%20Stocks%20in%20White%20Cypress%20Pine%20Callitris%20glaucophylla%20and%20Associated%20Eucalypts%20of%20the%20Carnarvon%20Area%20%20South%20Central%20Queensland%20with%20Additional%20Data%20for%20Scrub%20Leopardwood%20%20Flindersia%20dissosperma) 

